And Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, I must seek some resting place for you, that it may go well with you.
And now is not Boaz our relative, with whose young women you have been? Behold, he is winnowing the barley tonight at the threshing floor.
Wash yourself therefore, and anoint yourself, and put on your best clothes; and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
And when he lies down, notice the place where he lies, and go and uncover his feet, and lie down. And he will tell you what you should do.
And she said to her, All that you say, I will do.
And she went down to the threshing floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law had charged her.
And Boaz ate and drank, and his heart was merry. And he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. And she came in secretly and uncovered his feet and lay down.
Then at midnight the man was startled; and he turned over, and a woman was there, lying at his feet.
And he said, Who are you? And she said, I am Ruth, your female servant. Spread your cloak over your female servant, for you are a kinsman.
And he said, Blessed be you of Jehovah, my daughter. You have shown your latter kindness to be better than your first by not going after the choice young men, whether poor or rich.
And now, my daughter, do not fear. All that you say, I will do for you; for all the assembly of my people know that you are a worthy woman.
And now it is true that I am a kinsman, yet there is a kinsman closer than I.
Stay for the night; and in the morning if he will do the kinsman's duty, fine; let him do it. But if he is not willing to do the kinsman's duty for you, I will do it for you, as Jehovah lives. Lie down until morning.
And she lay at his feet until morning, then rose up before one could recognize another; for he said, Do not let it be known that the woman came to the threshing floor.
And he said, Bring the cloak that is on you, and hold it open. And she held it open, and he measured out six measures of barley and laid it on her. And he went into the city.
And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, How are you, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done for her.
And she said, These six measures of barley he gave me, for he said, Do not go to your mother-in-law empty-handed.
And she said, Stay here, my daughter, until you know how the matter will fall; for the man will not rest until he has concluded the matter today.