Do not let your heart be troubled; believe into God, believe also into Me.
In My Father's house are many abodes; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you to Myself, so that where I am you also may be.
And where I am going you know the way.
Thomas said to Him, Lord, we do not know where You are going; how can we know the way?
Jesus said to him, I am the way and the reality and the life; no one comes to the Father except through Me.
If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and henceforth you know Him and have seen Him.
Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father and it is sufficient for us.
Jesus said to him, Have I been so long a time with you, and you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how is it that you say, Show us the Father?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak from Myself, but the Father who abides in Me does His works.
Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me; but if not, believe because of the works themselves.
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes into Me, the works which I do he shall do also; and greater than these he shall do because I am going to the Father.
And whatever you ask in My name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do it.
If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.
And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Comforter, that He may be with you forever,
Even the Spirit of reality, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not behold Him or know Him; but you know Him, because He abides with you and shall be in you.
I will not leave you as orphans; I am coming to you.
Yet a little while and the world beholds Me no longer, but you behold Me; because I live, you also shall live.
In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
He who has My commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will manifest Myself to him.
Judas, not Iscariot, said to Him, Lord, and what has happened that You are to manifest Yourself to us and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make an abode with him.
He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father's who sent Me.
These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you;
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things and remind you of all the things which I have said to you.
Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
You have heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming to you. If you loved Me, you would rejoice because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you may believe.
I will no longer speak much with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and in Me he has nothing;
But this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded Me, so I do. Rise, let us go from here.