When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
(Although Jesus Himself did not baptize, but rather His disciples),
He left Judea and went away again into Galilee.
And He had to pass through Samaria.
So He came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the piece of land that Jacob gave to Joseph his son;
And Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied from the journey, sat thus by the well; it was about the sixth hour.
There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give Me something to drink.
For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.
The Samaritan woman then said to Him, How is it that You, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give Me a drink, you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water.
The woman said to Him, Sir, You have no bucket, and the well is deep; where then do You get this living water?
Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank of it himself, as well as his sons and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water shall thirst again,
But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall by no means thirst forever; but the water that I will give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into eternal life.
The woman said to Him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not thirst nor come here to draw.
He said to her, Go, call your husband and come here.
The woman answered and said, I do not have a husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I do not have a husband,
For you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; this you have said truly.
The woman said to Him, Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet.
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, yet you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men must worship.
Jesus said to her, Woman, believe Me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
You worship that which you do not know; we worship that which we know, for salvation is of the Jews.
But an hour is coming, and it is now, when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truthfulness, for the Father also seeks such to worship Him.
God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truthfulness.
The woman said to Him, I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Christ); when He comes, He will declare all things to us.
Jesus said to her, I, who speak to you, am He.
And at this point His disciples came, and they marveled that He was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, What are You seeking? or, Why are You speaking with her?
Then the woman left her waterpot and went away into the city, and said to the people,
Come, see a man who told me all that I have done. Is this not the Christ?
They went out of the city and came to Him.
In the meantime, the disciples urged Him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
But He said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about.
The disciples therefore said to one another, Has anyone brought Him anything to eat?
Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to finish His work.
Do you not say that there are yet four months and then the harvest comes? Behold, I tell you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are already white for harvest.
He who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto eternal life, in order that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
For in this the saying is true, One sows and another reaps.
I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.
And many of the Samaritans from that city believed into Him because of the word of the woman who testified, He told me all that I have done.
So when the Samaritans came to Him, they asked Him to remain with them, and He remained there two days.
And many more believed because of His word.
And they said to the woman, It is no longer because of your speaking that we believe, for we ourselves have heard and know that this One is truly the Savior of the world.
And after the two days He went forth from there into Galilee,
For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
Then when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all that He did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast.
He then came again to Cana of Galilee, where He had made the water wine. And there was a certain royal official, whose son was sick in Capernaum.
When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and asked Him to come down and heal his son, for he was about to die.
Jesus therefore said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will by no means believe.
The royal official said to Him, Sir, come down before my little child dies.
Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. The man believed the word which Jesus said to him and went his way.
And as he was now going down, his slaves met him and said that his child was living.
So he asked them the hour in which he got better. They said then to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
Then the father knew that it was in that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives; and he believed, he and his whole house.
Again, this second sign Jesus performed when He came out of Judea into Galilee.