Now after the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, David remained in Ziklag two days.
And on the third day there came a man from Saul's camp with his clothes torn and dirt on his head. And when he came to David, he fell to the ground and paid him homage.
And David said to him, Where did you come from? And he said to him, From the camp of Israel I have escaped.
And David said to him, What has happened? Tell me. And he said that the people had fled from the battle and that also many of the people had fallen and died and that also Saul and Jonathan his son were dead.
And David said to the young man that told him these things, How do you know that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?
And the young man that told him these things said, By chance I happened to be upon Mount Gilboa; and just then Saul leaned on his spear, and just then the chariots and horsemen pursued closely after him.
And when he looked behind him, he saw me; and he called to me. And I said, Here I am.
And he said to me, Who are you? And I said to him, I am an Amalekite.
Then he said to me, Stand over me, and kill me; for anguish has seized me because my life is yet wholly within me.
So I stood over him and put him to death, for I knew that he would not live after his fall; and I took the crown that was upon his head and the armlet that was on his arm, and I have brought them to my lord here.
Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them, as did all the men who were with him.
And they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and for Jonathan his son and for the people of Jehovah and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
And David said to the young man who told him these things, Where are you from? And he said, I am the son of an Amalekite stranger.
And David said to him, How is it that you were not afraid to stretch out your hand to destroy Jehovah's anointed?
Then David called one of the young men and said, Come near; fall on him. And he struck him, and he died.
And David said to him, Your blood be upon your head, for your mouth has testified against you, saying, I have killed Jehovah's anointed.
And David sang this dirge over Saul and over Jonathan his son;
And he commanded them to teach the children of Judah The Song of the Bow. It is now written in the book of Jashar:
The beauty of Israel lies slain upon your high places. / How the mighty have fallen!
Tell it not in Gath; / Bear not the news of it in the streets of Ashkelon; / Lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, / Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
O mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew or rain upon you, / Nor fields of heave offerings. / For there the shield of the mighty was defiled, / The shield of Saul, no more anointed with oil.
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, / The bow of Jonathan has not turned back, / And the sword of Saul has not returned empty.
Saul and Jonathan were beloved and pleasant in their lives, / And in their death they were not divided. / They were swifter than eagles; / They were stronger than lions.
O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet with splendor, / Who put ornaments of gold on your apparel.
How the mighty are fallen in the midst of the battle! / Jonathan lies slain upon your high places.
I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; so very pleasant were you to me. / Your love to me was wonderful, beyond the love of women.
How the mighty have fallen, / And the weapons of war perished!