And David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.
And David rose up and went with all the people who were with him from Baale-judah to bring up from there the Ark of God, which is called by the Name, the name of Jehovah of hosts, who is enthroned between the cherubim.
And they set the Ark of God upon a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.
And they brought it with the Ark of God out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill; and Ahio went before the Ark.
And David and all the house of Israel played before Jehovah on all manner of instruments of cypress wood, with lyres and with harps and with tambourines and with sistrums and with cymbals.
And when they came to Nachon's threshing floor, Uzzah reached out for the Ark of God and took hold of it; for the oxen had stumbled.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Uzzah, and God struck him there for his error; and he died there by the Ark of God.
And David was angry because Jehovah had broken forth with an outburst upon Uzzah; and that place has been called Perez-uzzah to this day.
And David was afraid of Jehovah that day; and he said, How shall the Ark of Jehovah come to me?
So David did not want to remove the Ark of Jehovah to himself in the city of David. But David carried it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
And the Ark of Jehovah remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months; and Jehovah blessed Obed-edom and all his household.
And it was told King David, saying, Jehovah has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that he has because of the Ark of God. So David went and brought up the Ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with rejoicing.
And when those who bore the Ark of Jehovah had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling.
And David danced with all his might before Jehovah; and David was girded with a linen ephod.
So David and all the house of Israel brought up the Ark of Jehovah with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet.
And when the Ark of Jehovah came into the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked down through a window and saw King David leaping and dancing before Jehovah; and she despised him in her heart.
And they brought in the Ark of Jehovah and set it in its place in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it. And David offered up burnt offerings and peace offerings before Jehovah.
And when David finished offering up the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah of hosts.
And he apportioned to all the people, to the whole multitude of Israel, to both men and women, to each one, a cake of bread and a portion of meat and a cake of raisins. And all the people went away, each to his own house.
Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul went forth to meet David; and she said, How the king of Israel has made himself honorable today, uncovering himself today in the sight of the maids of his servants as some worthless fellow might shamelessly uncover himself!
And David said to Michal, It was before Jehovah, who chose me above your father and above all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of Jehovah, over Israel; so I played before Jehovah.
And I will yet be more lightly esteemed than this, and I will be base in my own sight; but by the female servants of whom you have spoken, by them will I be honored.
And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child until the day of her death.