And as the king dwelt in his house and Jehovah gave him rest all around from all his enemies,
The king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the Ark of God dwells within curtains.
And Nathan said to the king, All that is in your heart go and do, for Jehovah is with you.
And in that night the word of Jehovah came to Nathan, saying,
Go and say to My servant David, Thus says Jehovah, Is it you who will build Me a house for Me to dwell in?
For I have not dwelt in a house, since the day I brought the children of Israel up out of Egypt to this day; but I went about in a tent and in a tabernacle.
In all My going about among all the children of Israel, did I ever speak a word to any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people Israel, saying, Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?
And now thus shall you say to My servant David, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you might be ruler over My people, over Israel;
And I have been with you in every place that you have gone and have cut off all your enemies before you; and I will make a great name for you, like the name of the great ones who are on the earth.
And I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them there, that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more; and the sons of wickedness will ill-treat them no more as before,
Even since the time when I commanded that there be judges over My people Israel; and I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover Jehovah declares to you that Jehovah will make you a house.
When your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, I will raise up your seed after you, which will come forth from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.
It is he who will build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
I will be his Father, and he will be My son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the sons of men;
But My lovingkindness will not depart from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I put away before you.
And your house and your kingdom will be made sure forever before you; your throne will be established forever.
According to all these words and according to this whole vision did Nathan speak to David.
Then King David went and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Lord Jehovah, and what is my house that You have brought me this far?
And this was yet a small thing in Your sight, O Lord Jehovah; but You have spoken also of the house of Your servant for a great while to come; and is this the custom for man, O Lord Jehovah?
And what more can David say to You? For You know Your servant, O Lord Jehovah.
For Your word's sake and according to Your own heart, You have done all this greatness to make Your servant know it.
Therefore You are great, O Lord Jehovah; for there is none like You, nor is there any God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
And who is like Your people Israel, a nation unique on the earth, whom God went to redeem to Himself as a people in order to make a name for Himself and to do for You what is great and awesome for Your land and before Your people, whom You have redeemed to Yourself out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods?
And You have established Your people Israel to be a people to You forever, and You, O Jehovah, became their God.
And now, O Jehovah God, confirm forever the word which You have spoken concerning Your servant and concerning his house, and do as You have spoken.
And may Your name be magnified forever when men say, Jehovah of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of Your servant David will be established before You.
For You, O Jehovah of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed to Your servant, saying, I will build you a house; therefore Your servant has found it in his heart to pray this prayer to You.
And now, O Lord Jehovah, You are God, and Your words are true, and You have spoken this good matter to Your servant;
Now therefore may it please You to bless the house of Your servant, that it may be before You forever; for You, O Lord Jehovah, have spoken it. And with Your blessing may the house of Your servant be blessed forever.