Inasmuch as many have undertaken to draw up a narrative concerning the matters which have been fully accomplished among us,
Even as those who from the beginning became eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us,
It seemed good to me also, having carefully investigated all things from the first, to write them out for you in an orderly fashion, most excellent Theophilus,
So that you may fully know the certainty of the things concerning which you were instructed.
In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a certain priest named Zachariah, of the course of Abijah; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless.
And they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both advanced in their days.
And while he served as priest in the order of his course before God,
According to the custom of the priestly service, the lot fell to him to enter into the temple of the Lord and burn incense.
And all the multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of the burning of incense.
And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense.
And Zachariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zachariah, because your petition has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John.
And you will have joy and exultation, and many will rejoice at his birth.
For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and he shall by no means drink wine and liquor. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb,
And many of the sons of Israel he will turn to the Lord their God.
And it is he who will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the prudence of the righteous, to prepare for the Lord a people made ready.
And Zachariah said to the angel, By what shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years.
And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands before God, and I was sent to speak to you and to announce the good news of these things to you.
And behold, you shall be silent and not able to speak until the day that these things happen, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time.
And the people were waiting for Zachariah, and they marveled at his delaying in the temple.
And when he came out, he was not able to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he made signs to them and remained dumb.
And when the days of his service were fulfilled, he went to his house.
And after these days Elizabeth his wife conceived and stayed in seclusion for five months, saying,
In this way has the Lord dealt with me in the days in which He looked upon me to take away my reproach among men.
And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,
To a virgin engaged to a man named Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.
And he came to her and said, Rejoice, you who have been graced! The Lord is with you.
And she was greatly troubled at this saying and began reasoning what kind of greeting this might be.
And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found grace with God.
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus.
He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give to Him the throne of David His father,
And He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there will be no end.
But Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I have not known a man?
And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore also the holy thing which is born will be called the Son of God.
And behold, Elizabeth your relative, she also has conceived a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month for her who is called barren,
Because no word will be impossible with God.
And Mary said, Behold, the slave of the Lord. May it happen to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her.
And Mary rose up in those days and went to the hill country with haste, to a city of Judah,
And entered into the house of Zachariah and greeted Elizabeth.
And when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
And she lifted up her voice with a loud cry and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
And how has this happened to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby leaped with exultation in my womb.
And blessed is she who has believed, because there will be a completion of the things spoken to her from the Lord.
And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord,
And my spirit has exulted in God my Savior;
Because He has looked upon the low estate of His slave. For behold, from now on all generations will count me blessed,
Because the Mighty One has done great things for me, and holy is His name.
And His mercy is unto generations and generations, unto those who fear Him.
He has exercised might with His arm; He has scattered those who are proud in the understanding of their heart.
He has brought down potentates from thrones and has exalted the humble;
The hungry He has filled with good things, and the rich He has sent away empty.
He has upheld Israel His servant to remember mercy,
Even as He spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed forever.
And Mary remained with her about three months, and returned to her home.
Now the time was fulfilled for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.
And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had magnified His mercy with her, and they rejoiced with her.
And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the little child, and they tried to call him after the name of his father, Zachariah.
Yet his mother answered and said, No, but he shall be called John.
And they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.
And they gestured to his father as to what he would want him to be called.
And asking for a tablet, he wrote, saying, John is his name. And they all marveled.
And his mouth was opened instantly, and his tongue loosed, and he began to speak, blessing God.
And fear came on all those dwelling around them, and in all the hill country of Judea all these things were spread about.
And all who heard these things put them in their heart, saying, What then will this little child be? For indeed the hand of the Lord was with him.
And Zachariah his father was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying,
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, because He has visited and accomplished redemption for His people,
And raised a horn of salvation for us in the house of David His servant,
Even as He spoke through the mouth of His holy prophets from of old--
Salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us,
To accomplish mercy with our fathers and to remember His holy covenant,
The oath which He swore to Abraham our father,
To grant us that we, having been delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear,
In holiness and righteousness before Him all our days.
And you also, little child, shall be called a prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare His ways,
To give knowledge of salvation to His people by the forgiveness of their sins,
Because of the merciful compassions of our God, in which the rising sun will visit us from on high,
To shine upon those sitting in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
And the little child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his presentation to Israel.