Now after these things, the Lord appointed seventy others and sent them two by two before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to come.
And He said to them, The harvest is great, but the workers few; therefore, beseech the Lord of the harvest that He would thrust out workers into His harvest.
Go; behold, I send you as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Do not carry a purse, nor a bag, nor sandals; and greet no one on the way.
And into whatever house you enter, first say, Peace to this house.
And if a son of peace is there, your peace shall rest upon it; but if not, it shall return upon you.
And in that house remain, eating and drinking the things from them, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not move from house to house.
And into whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat what is set before you;
And heal the sick who are in it and say to them, The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.
But into whatever city you enter and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say,
Even the dust from your city which clings to our feet, we wipe off against you; yet know this, that the kingdom of God has drawn near.
I say to you that it will be more tolerable for Sodom in that day than for that city.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Yet it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.
And you, Capernaum, who have been exalted to heaven, to Hades you will be brought down.
He who hears you hears Me, and he who rejects you rejects Me, and he who rejects Me rejects Him who sent Me.
And the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name.
And He said to them, I was watching Satan fall like lightning out of heaven.
Behold, I have given you the authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
However do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are recorded in the heavens.
In that hour He exulted in the Holy Spirit and said, I extol You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to babes. Yes, Father, for thus it has been well pleasing in Your sight.
All things have been delivered to Me by My Father; and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son and him to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.
And turning to the disciples, He said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see.
For I tell you that many prophets and kings have wanted to perceive the things that you see, and have not perceived them, and to hear the things that you hear, and have not heard them.
And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and put Him to the test, saying, Teacher, what should I do to inherit eternal life?
And He said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it?
And he answered and said, "You shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole strength and with your whole mind, and your neighbor as yourself."
And He said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you shall have life.
But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor?
Jesus, taking up the question, said, A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who having both stripped him and beaten him, went away, leaving him half dead.
And by coincidence a certain priest was going down on that road; and when he saw him, he passed by on the opposite side.
And likewise also a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the opposite side.
But a certain Samaritan, who was journeying, came upon him; and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion;
And he came to him and bound up his wounds and poured oil and wine on them. And placing him on his own beast, he brought him to an inn and took care of him.
And on the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper and said, Take care of him; and whatever you spend in addition to this, when I return, I will repay you.
Which of these three, does it seem to you, has become a neighbor to him who fell into the hands of the robbers?
And he said, The one who showed mercy to him. And Jesus said to him, Go, and you do likewise.
Now as they went, He entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her home.
And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at the Lord's feet and was listening to His word.
But Martha was being drawn about with much serving, and she came up to Him and said, Lord, does it not matter to You that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to do her part with me.
But the Lord answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things;
But there is need of one thing, for Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her.