And He said to His disciples, It is impossible for causes of stumbling not to come, but woe to him through whom they come.
It is more profitable for him if a millstone is put around his neck and he is hurled into the sea than to stumble one of these little ones.
Take heed to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
And if he sins against you seven times in a day and turns again to you seven times, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord, Increase our faith.
But the Lord said, If you have faith like a mustard seed, you would have said to this sycamine tree, Be uprooted and be planted in the sea; and it would have obeyed you.
But which of you, having a slave who is plowing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, Come immediately and recline at table?
Will he not rather say to him, Prepare something that I may dine, and gird yourself and serve me until I eat and drink; and after that you will eat and drink?
He does not thank the slave because he did the things which were ordered, does he?
So also you, when you do all the things which are ordered you, say, We are unprofitable slaves; we have done what we ought to have done.
And as He was going to Jerusalem, He passed between Samaria and Galilee.
And as He entered into a certain village, ten leprous men, who stood at a distance, met Him.
And they raised their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!
And when He saw them, He said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed.
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned, glorifying God with a loud voice;
And he fell on his face at His feet, thanking Him. And he was a Samaritan.
And Jesus answered and said, Were not the ten cleansed? But the nine, where are they?
Were none found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner?
And He said to him, Rise up and go; your faith has healed you.
And when He was questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation;
Nor will they say, Behold, here it is! or, There! For behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.
And He said to the disciples, The days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
And they will say to you, Behold, there! Behold, here! Do not go away, nor run after them.
For just as lightning flashing from one end of heaven shines to the other end of heaven, so will the Son of Man be in His day.
But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
And even as it happened in the days of Noah, so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man:
They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage, until the day in which Noah entered into the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all.
Likewise, even as it happened in the days of Lot: they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building;
But on the day in which Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
It will be in the same way on the day in which the Son of Man is revealed.
In that day, he who will be on the housetop and his goods in the house, let him not come down to take them away; and he who is in the field, likewise, let him not turn back to the things behind.
Remember Lot's wife.
Whoever seeks to preserve his soul-life will lose it, and whoever loses it will preserve it alive.
I tell you, In that night there will be two on one bed; the one will be taken and the other will be left.
There will be two women grinding together; the one will be taken but the other will be left.
Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.
And they answered and said to Him, Where, Lord? And He said to them, Where the body is, there also will the vultures be gathered together.