And in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus for a census to be taken of all the inhabited earth.
This was the first census, which took place when Quirinius governed Syria.
And all went to be registered, each to his own city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to David's city, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David,
To be registered with Mary, who was engaged to him and was pregnant.
And while they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to bear,
And she bore her firstborn son; and she wrapped Him in swaddling clothes and laid Him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn.
And there were shepherds in the same region, spending their nights in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night.
And an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them; and they feared greatly.
And the angel said to them, Do not be afraid; for behold, I announce to you good news of great joy, which will be for all the people,
Because today a Savior has been born to you in David's city, who is Christ the Lord.
And this will be the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger.
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God and saying,
Glory in the highest places to God, and on earth peace among men of His good pleasure.
And when the angels departed from them into heaven, the shepherds spoke to one another, Let us go then to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.
And they came in haste and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in the manger.
And when they had seen this, they made known the word which was spoken to them concerning this little child.
And all those who heard marveled at the things spoken to them by the shepherds.
But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart.
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things which they had heard and seen, even as it was spoken to them.
And when eight days were fulfilled to circumcise Him, His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb.
And when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought Him up to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord
(Even as it is written in the law of the Lord, "Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord"),
And to give a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord: A pair of turtledoves or two young doves.
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
And it had been divinely communicated to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ.
And he came in the Spirit into the temple; and when the parents brought in the little child Jesus for them to do according to the custom of the law concerning Him,
He received Him into his arms and blessed God and said,
Now You release Your slave, Master, according to Your word, in peace;
For my eyes have seen Your salvation,
Which You have prepared before the face of all the peoples,
A light for revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of Your people Israel.
And His father and mother marveled at the things being spoken about Him.
And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother, Behold, this One is appointed for the falling and rising up of many in Israel and for a sign spoken against--
And a sword will pierce through your own soul also--so that the reasonings of many hearts may be revealed.
And there was one Anna, a prophetess, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was well advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from her virginity,
And she was a widow up to the age of eighty-four, who did not depart from the temple, serving God with fastings and petitions night and day.
And at that very hour she came up and returned thanks to God, and spoke concerning Him to all those waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
And when they had finished all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.
And the little child grew and became strong, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon Him.
And His parents went year by year to Jerusalem at the Feast of the Passover.
And when He became twelve years old, they went up according to the custom of the feast.
And when they had completed the days, while they were returning, the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem, and His parents did not know it.
But supposing that He was in the company, they went a day's journey and sought Him among their relatives and acquaintances.
And when they did not find Him, they returned to Jerusalem searching for Him.
And after three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them and questioning them.
And all those who heard Him were amazed at His understanding and His answers.
And when they saw Him, they were astounded; and His mother said to Him, Child, why have You treated us like this? Behold, Your father and I, being greatly distressed, have been seeking You.
And He said to them, Why is it that you were seeking Me? Did you not know that I must be in the things of My Father?
And they did not understand the word which He spoke to them.
And He went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And His mother carefully kept all these things in her heart.
And Jesus advanced in wisdom and stature and in the grace manifested in Him before God and men.