And He looked up and saw the rich casting their gifts into the treasury.
And He saw a certain impoverished widow casting there two lepta.
And He said, Truly I tell you that this poor widow has cast in more than all of them,
For all these out of their surplus have cast in something into the gifts, but she out of her lack has cast in all the living that she had.
And as some were speaking about the temple, that it was adorned with beautiful stones and consecrated offerings, He said,
As for these things which you are looking at, the days will come in which there will not be left a stone upon a stone which will not be thrown down.
And they questioned Him, saying, Teacher, when therefore will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?
And He said, See that you are not led astray, for many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ! and, The time has drawn near! Do not go after them.
And when you hear of wars and revolutions, do not be terrified, for these things must take place first; but the end does not come immediately.
Then He said to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
And there will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for the sake of My name.
It will turn out to you for a testimony.
Settle it therefore in your hearts not to take thought beforehand how to reply in defense,
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all those opposing you will not be able to resist or refute.
And you will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death.
And you will be hated by all because of My name,
Yet a hair of your head shall by no means perish.
In your endurance you will possess your souls.
But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that her desolation has drawn near.
Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those in her midst get out, and let not those in the country enter into her,
Because these are days of vengeance, that all the things written may be fulfilled.
Woe to those who are pregnant and to those nursing babies in those days, for there will be great distress upon the land and wrath to this people.
And they will fall by the edge of the sword and will be led captive into all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars, and upon the earth anguish of nations in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the billows,
Men fainting from fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to happen, stand erect and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.
And He told them a parable: Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
As soon as they sprout leaves, you see it and know of yourselves that the summer is already near.
So also you, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I tell you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all things happen.
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
But take heed to yourselves lest perhaps your hearts be weighed down with debauchery and drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day come upon you suddenly as a snare.
For it will come in upon all those dwelling on the face of all the earth.
But be watchful at every time, beseeching that you would prevail to escape all these things which are about to happen and stand before the Son of Man.
Now during the day He was in the temple teaching, but during the night He went out and stayed on the mountain called Olivet.
And all the people would come early in the morning to Him in the temple to hear Him.