And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness, while being tempted for forty days by the devil.
And He did not eat anything in those days, and when they were concluded, He became hungry.
And the devil said to Him, If You are the Son of God, speak to this stone that it become bread.
And Jesus answered him, It is written, "Man shall not live on bread alone."
And he led Him up and showed Him all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth in a moment of time.
And the devil said to Him, To You I will give all this authority and their glory, because to me it has been delivered, and to whomever I want I give it.
If You therefore worship before me, it shall all be Yours.
And Jesus answered and said to him, It is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve."
And he led Him into Jerusalem and set Him on the wing of the temple and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, cast Yourself down from here;
For it is written, "To His angels He shall give charge concerning You to protect You,
And on their hands they shall bear You up, lest You strike Your foot against a stone."
And Jesus answered and said to him, It is said, "You shall not test the Lord your God."
And when the devil had concluded every temptation, he went away from Him until an opportune time.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And reports about Him went out through all the surrounding region.
And He taught in their synagogues and was glorified by all.
And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and according to His custom He entered on the Sabbath day into the synagogue and stood up to read.
And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. And He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written,
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to announce the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to proclaim release to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind, to send away in release those who are oppressed,
To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, the year of jubilee."
And when He rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant, He sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on Him.
And He began to say to them, Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.
And all bore witness to Him and marveled at the words of grace proceeding out of His mouth, and they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
And He said to them, Surely you will say this proverb to Me, Physician, heal yourself! What we heard happening in Capernaum, do here also in Your own country.
And He said, Truly I say to you that no prophet is acceptable in his own country.
But in truth I say to you, There were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, when a great famine came over all the land;
And to none of them was Elijah sent, except to the city of Sarepta of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.
And there were many lepers in Israel during the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them were cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian.
And all in the synagogue were filled with anger when they heard these things,
And they rose up and cast Him out of the city and led Him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built so that they might throw Him down the cliff.
But He, passing through their midst, went away.
And He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And He taught them on the Sabbath.
And they were astounded at His teaching, because His word was with authority.
And in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
Ah! What do we have to do with You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are--the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out from him. And throwing him down in the midst, the demon came out from him without harming him at all.
And amazement came upon all, and they spoke to one another, saying, What is this word? For with authority and power He orders the unclean spirits, and they come out.
And reports went out concerning Him into every place of the surrounding region.
And He rose up and went from the synagogue and entered into the house of Simon. And Simon's mother-in-law was suffering with a high fever, and they asked Him concerning her.
And standing over her, He rebuked the fever, and it left her. And she instantly rose up and served them.
And when the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to Him; and He laid His hands on each one of them and healed them.
And demons also came out from many, crying out and saying, You are the Son of God! And He rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ.
And when day came, He departed and went into a deserted place. And the crowds sought Him, and they came up to Him and tried to hold on to Him so that He would not go away from them.
But He said to them, I must announce the gospel of the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this I was sent.
And He preached in the synagogues of Judea.