What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh has found?
For if Abraham was justified out of works, he has something to boast in, but not before God.
For what does the Scripture say? "And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness."
Now to the one who works, his wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to what is due.
But to the one who does not work, but believes on Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted as righteousness.
Even as David also speaks blessing on the man to whom God accounts righteousness apart from works:
"Blessed are they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered over.
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall by no means account sin."
Is this blessing then upon the circumcision only, or also upon the uncircumcision? For we say, Faith was accounted to Abraham as righteousness.
How then was it accounted? While he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those in uncircumcision who believe, that righteousness might be accounted to them also,
And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had in uncircumcision.
For it was not through the law that the promise was made to Abraham or to his seed that he would be the heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith.
For if those of the law are heirs, faith has been made void and the promise has been annulled;
For the law works out wrath; but where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
Therefore the inheritance is out of faith that it might be according to grace, so that the promise may be certain to all the seed, not to that which is of the law only, but also to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
(As it is written, "I have appointed you a father of many nations") in the sight of God whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls the things not being as being.
He beyond hope believed in hope in order that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, "So shall your seed be."
And not weakening in his faith, he considered his own body as already dead, being about a hundred years old, as well as the deadening of Sarah's womb;
But with regard to the promise of God, he did not doubt in unbelief, but was empowered by faith, giving glory to God
And being fully persuaded that what He had promised He was able also to do.
Therefore also it was accounted to him as righteousness.
Now it was not written for his sake only that it was accounted to him,
But for ours also to whom it is to be accounted, who believe on Him who has raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised for our justification.