Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, of Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and sons were born to them after the flood.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim.
From these the islands and coastal regions of the nations were separated into their lands, every one according to his tongue, according to their families, in their nations.
And the sons of Ham: Cush and Mizraim and Put and Canaan.
And the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Raamah and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
And Cush begot Nimrod: He began to be a mighty one on the earth.
He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah; therefore it is said, Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before Jehovah.
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Erech and Akkad and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
From that land he went into Assyria and built Nineveh and Rehoboth-ir and Calah
And Resen between Nineveh and Calah, that is, the great city.
And Mizraim begot the Ludim and the Anamim and the Lehabim and the Naphtuhim
And the Pathrusim and the Casluhim, from which came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim.
And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn and Heth
And the Jebusites and the Amorites and the Girgashites
And the Hivites and the Arkites and the Sinites
And the Arvadites and the Zemarites and the Hamathites, and afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread out.
And the territory of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as you go toward Gerar, as far as Gaza, and as you go toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha.
These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.
And also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, children were born.
The sons of Shem: Elam and Asshur and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram.
And the sons of Aram: Uz and Hul and Gether and Mash.
And Arpachshad begot Shelah, and Shelah begot Eber.
And to Eber were born two sons: The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
And Joktan begot Almodad and Sheleph and Hazarmaveth and Jerah
And Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah
And Obal and Abimael and Sheba
And Ophir and Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as you go toward Sephar, the hill country of the east.
These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.
These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, in their nations; and from these the nations were separated on the earth after the flood.