Now Jehovah said to Abram, Go from your land / And from your relatives / And from your father's house / To the land that I will show you;
And I will make of you a great nation, / And I will bless you / And make your name great; / And you shall be a blessing.
And I will bless those who bless you, / And him who curses you I will curse; / And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed.
So Abram went as Jehovah had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he went out of Haran.
And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their possessions that they had gathered and the souls that they had acquired in Haran, and they went out to go to the land of Canaan. And they came to the land of Canaan.
And Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. And at that time the Canaanites were in the land.
And Jehovah appeared to Abram and said, To your seed I will give this land. And there he built an altar to Jehovah who had appeared to him.
And he proceeded from there to the mountain on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; and there he built an altar to Jehovah and called upon the name of Jehovah.
And Abram journeyed onward, journeying toward the Negev.
And there was a famine in the land; and Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land.
And when he was about to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, I know indeed that you are a beautiful woman to look at;
And when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife, and they will kill me; but they will keep you alive.
Now say you are my sister, that it may be well with me on account of you and I may live because of you.
And it came about that when Abram came to Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful.
And Pharaoh's officials saw her and praised her before Pharaoh, and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
And he treated Abram well on account of her, and there were given to him sheep and oxen and donkeys and male servants and female servants and female donkeys and camels.
And Jehovah struck Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife.
And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?
Why did you say, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? Now then here is your wife; take her and go.
And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had.