And in the days of Amraphel the king of Shinar, Arioch the king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and Tidal the king of Goiim,
These kings made war with Bera the king of Sodom and with Birsha the king of Gomorrah, Shinab the king of Admah, and Shemeber the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar).
All these joined together in the valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea).
Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
And in the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him came and struck the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim and the Zuzim in Ham and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim
And the Horites in Mount Seir as far as El-paran, which is by the wilderness.
And they turned back and came to En-mishpat (that is, Kadesh), and struck all the country of the Amalekites and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazazon-tamar.
And the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah and the king of Admah and the king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) went forth and set the battle in array against them in the valley of Siddim,
Against Chedorlaomer the king of Elam and Tidal the king of Goiim and Amraphel the king of Shinar and Arioch the king of Ellasar, four kings against the five.
Now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits, and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled and fell there; but those who survived fled to the hill country.
And they took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their food and went away.
And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, and his possessions and departed, for he was dwelling in Sodom.
And one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew. Now he was dwelling by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, the brother of Eshcol and the brother of Aner; and these were allies of Abram.
And when Abram heard that his brother had been taken captive, he led out his trained men, born in his house, three hundred eighteen of them, and pursued as far as Dan.
And he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them and pursued them to Hobah, which is north of Damascus.
And he brought back all the possessions and also brought back Lot his brother and his possessions as well as the women and the people.
And after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the valley of Shaveh (that is, the King's Valley).
And Melchizedek the king of Salem brought out bread and wine. Now he was priest of God the Most High.
And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of God the Most High, / Possessor of heaven and earth;
And blessed be God the Most High, / Who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And Abram gave him a tenth of all.
And the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the people, and take the possessions for yourself.
But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand to Jehovah, God the Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth,
That I will not take a thread or a sandal thong or anything that is yours, lest you say, I have made Abram rich;
Except only that which the young men have eaten and the portion of the men who went with me--Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.