And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him; and he charged him and said to him, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan.
Rise up, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother's father; and take from there a wife from the daughters of Laban your mother's brother.
And may the All-sufficient God bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become a company of peoples.
And may He give you the blessing of Abraham, to you and to your seed with you, that you may possess this land of your sojournings, which God gave to Abraham.
And Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Paddan-aram, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Aramaean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and had sent him away to Paddan-aram to take a wife from there, and that when he blessed him, he charged him, saying, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan,
And that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and had gone to Paddan-aram.
So Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan displeased Isaac his father.
Then Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, and the sister of Nebaioth to be his wife, in addition to the wives that he had.
And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba and went toward Haran.
And he came to a certain place and spent the night there, because the sun had set. And he took one of the stones of the place and put it under his head, and he lay down in that place.
And he dreamed that there was a ladder set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.
And there was Jehovah, standing above it; and He said, I am Jehovah, the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie, I will give to you and to your seed.
And your seed will be as the dust of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and in you and in your seed will all the families of the earth be blessed.
And, behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go and will cause you to return to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.
And Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely Jehovah is in this place, and I did not know it.
And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put under his head, and he set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of it.
And he called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of the city was Luz previously.
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go and will give me bread to eat and garments to put on,
So that I return to my father's house in peace, then Jehovah will be my God,
And this stone, which I have set up as a pillar, will be God's house; and of all that You give me I will surely give one tenth to You.