Now these are the generations of Esau (that is, Edom).
Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite; and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah and granddaughter of Zibeon the Hivite;
And Basemath Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nebaioth.
And Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau, and Basemath bore Reuel,
And Oholibamah bore Jeush and Jalam and Korah. These are the sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
And Esau took his wives and his sons and his daughters and all his household and his livestock and all his cattle and all his possessions which he had acquired in the land of Canaan, and he went into a land away from his brother Jacob.
For their property was too great for them to dwell together, and the land where they sojourned could not sustain them because of their livestock.
And Esau dwelt in Mount Seir; Esau is Edom.
And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in Mount Seir:
These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of Esau's wife Adah, Reuel the son of Esau's wife Basemath.
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam and Kenaz.
And Timna was a concubine to Eliphaz, Esau's son, and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Esau's wife Adah.
And these are the sons of Reuel: Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These were the sons of Esau's wife Basemath.
And these were the sons of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah and granddaughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: And she bore to Esau Jeush and Jalam and Korah.
These are the clans of the sons of Esau. The sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: Clan Teman, Clan Omar, Clan Zepho, Clan Kenaz,
Clan Korah, Clan Gatam, Clan Amalek; these are the clans of Eliphaz in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Adah.
And these are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: Clan Nahath, Clan Zerah, Clan Shammah, Clan Mizzah; these are the clans of Reuel in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife.
And these are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: Clan Jeush, Clan Jalam, Clan Korah. These are the clans of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
These are the sons of Esau (that is, Edom), and these are their clans.
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah
And Dishon and Ezer and Dishan; these are the clans of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.
And the sons of Lotan were Hori and Heman; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
And these are the sons of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath and Ebal, Shepho and Onam.
And these are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. This is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness as he fed the donkeys of Zibeon his father.
And these are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah.
And these are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan and Eshban and Ithran and Cheran.
These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and Akan.
These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
These are the clans of the Horites: Clan Lotan, Clan Shobal, Clan Zibeon, Clan Anah,
Clan Dishon, Clan Ezer, Clan Dishan. These are the clans of the Horites, according to their clans in the land of Seir.
And these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before a king of the children of Israel reigned:
Now Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
And Husham died; and Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Avith.
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River reigned in his place.
And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
And Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
And these are the names of the clans of Esau, according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Clan Timna, Clan Alvah, Clan Jetheth,
Clan Oholibamah, Clan Elah, Clan Pinon,
Clan Kenaz, Clan Teman, Clan Mibzar,
Clan Magdiel, Clan Iram. These are the clans of Edom according to their habitations in the land of their possession. This is Esau the father of the Edomites.