Now Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an official of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought him down there.
And Jehovah was with Joseph, and he became a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian.
And his master saw that Jehovah was with him and that Jehovah caused all that he did to prosper in his hand.
And Joseph found favor in his sight, and he ministered to him; and he made him overseer of his house and put all that he had in his charge.
And from the time he made him overseer in his house and put him over all that he had, Jehovah blessed the Egyptian's house on account of Joseph; and the blessing of Jehovah was upon all that he had, in the house and in the field.
And he left all that he had in Joseph's charge; and with him there, he was not concerned about anything except the food that he ate. And Joseph was handsome in form and handsome in appearance.
Now after these things his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph and said, Lie with me.
But he refused and said to his master's wife, Behold, with me here, my master is not concerned about anything in the house, and he has put everything he has in my charge.
There is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great evil, and sin against God?
And although she spoke to Joseph day after day, he would not listen to her to lie beside her or be with her.
And one such day he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house were there in the house.
And she grabbed him by his garment, saying, Lie with me! But he left his garment in her hand, and fled and went outside.
And when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled outside,
She called to the men of her house and spoke to them, saying, See, he has brought in a Hebrew man to us to mock us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I called out with a loud voice;
And when he heard that I lifted up my voice and called out, he left his garment beside me, and fled and went outside.
And she placed his garment beside her until his master came home.
And she spoke to him with these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, whom you have brought to us, came in to me to mock me.
And when I lifted up my voice and called out, he left his garment beside me and fled outside.
And when his master heard the words of his wife that she had spoken to him, saying, This is the way your servant treated me; his anger burned.
And Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined. But while he was there in the prison,
Jehovah was with Joseph; and He extended kindness to him and gave him favor in the sight of the chief jailer.
And the chief jailer put in Joseph's charge all the prisoners who were in the prison; and whatever was done there, he was the one to do it.
The chief jailer did not supervise anything that was in his charge, because Jehovah was with him; and whatever he did, Jehovah caused it to prosper.