Now when Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, Why do you keep looking at one another?
And he said, I have now heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down there, and buy grain for us from there, that we may live and not die.
So Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain from Egypt.
But Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin with his brothers, for he said, Perhaps harm may befall him.
And the sons of Israel came to buy grain among the others who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
Now Joseph was the governor over the land; it was he who sold grain to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed down to him with their faces to the ground.
And Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he disguised himself to them and spoke harshly with them. And he said to them, Where have you come from? And they said, From the land of Canaan, to buy grain for food.
And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.
And Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamed about them, and he said to them, You are spies; you have come to see the nakedness of the land.
And they said to him, No, my lord; rather your servants have come to buy grain for food.
We are all sons of one man. We are honest men; your servants have never been spies.
And he said to them, No; but you have come to see the nakedness of the land.
And they said, We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and at this moment the youngest is with our father today, and one is no more.
But Joseph said to them, It is just as I spoke to you, saying, You are spies.
By this you shall be tested: As Pharaoh lives, you shall not go away from this place unless your youngest brother comes here.
Send one of you to get your brother while you remain bound, that your words may be tested whether there is truth in you. And if not, as Pharaoh lives, surely you are spies.
And he put them all together in custody three days.
And Joseph said to them on the third day, Do this and live, for I fear God.
If you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain bound in your place of custody; and the rest of you go, carry grain for the famine of your households.
And bring your youngest brother to me, that your words may be verified; and you will not die. And they did so.
And they said one to another, We are indeed guilty concerning our brother, because we saw the distress of his soul when he pleaded with us, yet we would not listen; therefore this distress has come to us.
And Reuben answered them, saying, Did I not speak to you, saying, Do not sin against the child? But you would not listen. So now also his blood is required.
And they did not know that Joseph understood, for there was an interpreter between them.
And he turned away from them and wept. Then he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from among them and bound him before their eyes.
Then Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain and to restore every man's silver pieces to his sack and to give them provisions for the way. And thus was it done for them.
And they loaded their grain upon their donkeys and departed from there.
And one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place, and he saw his silver; there it was in the mouth of his sack.
And he said to his brothers, My silver has been returned; and here it is in my sack! And their heart stopped, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, What is this that God has done to us?
And they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan and told him all that had happened to them, saying,
The man, the lord of the land, spoke harshly to us and took us for spies on the land.
But we said to him, We are honest men; we have never been spies.
We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; the one is no more, and the youngest is with our father today in the land of Canaan.
And the man, the lord of the land, said to us, By this will I know that you are honest men: Leave one of your brothers with me, and take grain for the famine of your households, and go.
And bring your youngest brother to me that I may know that you are not spies but honest men. I will give you your brother, and you may trade in the land.
And when they emptied their sacks, there was each man's bundle of silver pieces, in his sack. And when they and their father saw their bundles of silver, they were afraid.
And Jacob their father said to them, You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and you would take Benjamin; all these things are against me.
And Reuben spoke to his father, saying, You may put to death my two sons if I do not bring him to you. Put him in my hand, and I will return him to you.
But he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he alone is left. And if harm should befall him on the way in which you go, then you will bring down my gray hairs in sorrow to Sheol.