So Israel set out with all that he had and came to Beer-sheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.
And God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here I am.
And He said, I am God, the God of your father; do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will make of you a great nation there.
I Myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I Myself will also surely bring you up again; and Joseph's hand will close your eyes.
And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba, and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father and their little ones and their wives in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
And they took their livestock and their possessions, which they had acquired in the land of Canaan, and Jacob and all his offspring with him came to Egypt.
His sons and his grandsons with him, his daughters and his granddaughters, and all his offspring he brought with him to Egypt.
And these are the names of the children of Israel, who came to Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Jacob's firstborn, Reuben.
And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch and Pallu and Hezron and Carmi.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman.
And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And the sons of Judah: Er and Onan and Shelah and Perez and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul.
And the sons of Issachar: Tola and Puvah and Iob and Shimron.
And the sons of Zebulun: Sered and Elon and Jahleel.
These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, along with his daughter Dinah. His sons and his daughters were thirty-three persons in all.
And the sons of Gad: Ziphion and Haggi, Shuni and Ezbon, Eri and Arodi and Areli.
And the sons of Asher: Imnah and Ishvah and Ishvi and Beriah, and Serah their sister; and the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah; and she bore these to Jacob, sixteen persons.
The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin.
And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath the daughter of Potiphera priest of On bore to him.
And the sons of Benjamin: Bela and Becher and Ashbel, Gera and Naaman, Ehi and Rosh, Muppim and Huppim and Ard.
These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob, fourteen persons in all.
And the sons of Dan: Hushim.
And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel and Guni and Jezer and Shillem.
These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and she bore these to Jacob, seven persons in all.
All the persons who came with Jacob into Egypt, who came out of his loins, besides the wives of Jacob's sons, were sixty-six persons in all.
And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two persons. All the persons of the house of Jacob, who came to Egypt, were seventy.
And he sent Judah before him to Joseph to show the way before him to Goshen, and they came to the land of Goshen.
And Joseph made his chariot ready and went up to Goshen to meet Israel his father. And when he appeared before him, he fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while.
And Israel said to Joseph, Let me die now since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive.
And Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, I will go up and tell Pharaoh, and will say to him, My brothers and my father's household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me.
And the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock; and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.
And when Pharaoh calls you and says, What is your occupation?
You shall say, Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers; that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.