This is the book of the generations of Adam. When God created Adam, He made him in the likeness of God.
Male and female He created them, and He blessed them and called their name Adam, on the day when they were created.
And Adam lived one hundred thirty years and begot a son in his likeness according to his image, and he called his name Seth.
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, and he died.
And Seth lived one hundred five years and begot Enosh.
And Seth lived after he had begotten Enosh eight hundred seven years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, and he died.
And Enosh lived ninety years and begot Kenan.
And Enosh lived after he had begotten Kenan eight hundred fifteen years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, and he died.
And Kenan lived seventy years and begot Mahalalel.
And Kenan lived after he had begotten Mahalalel eight hundred forty years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years, and he died.
And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years and begot Jared.
And Mahalalel lived after he had begotten Jared eight hundred thirty years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years, and he died.
And Jared lived a hundred sixty-two years and begot Enoch.
And Jared lived after he had begotten Enoch eight hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, and he died.
And Enoch lived sixty-five years and begot Methuselah.
And Enoch walked with God after he had begotten Methuselah three hundred years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years.
And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.
And Methuselah lived one hundred eighty-seven years and begot Lamech.
And Methuselah lived after he had begotten Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, and he died.
And Lamech lived a hundred eighty-two years and begot a son.
And he called his name Noah, saying, This one will give us rest from our work and from the toil of our hands, which come because of the ground which Jehovah has cursed.
And Lamech lived after he had begotten Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and he begot more sons and daughters.
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, and he died.
And Noah was five hundred years old. And Noah begot Shem, Ham, and Japheth.