And when men began to multiply on the surface of the ground, and daughters were born to them,
The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were fair; and they took wives for themselves from all whom they chose.
And Jehovah said, My Spirit will not strive with man forever, for he indeed is flesh; so his days will be one hundred twenty years.
The Nephilim were on the earth in those days--and also afterward--when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them; these were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown.
And Jehovah saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
And Jehovah repented that He had made man on the earth, and it grieved Him in His heart.
And Jehovah said, I will blot out the man whom I have created from the surface of the ground, from man to beast to creeping things to the birds of heaven; for I repent that I have made them.
But Noah found favor in the sight of Jehovah.
These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generations; and Noah walked with God.
And Noah begot three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
And the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
And God looked on the earth, and behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth.
And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with violence because of them; and now I am about to destroy them with the earth.
Make yourself an ark of gopher wood; you shall make rooms in the ark and shall cover it within and without with pitch.
And this is how you shall make it: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits.
You shall make an opening for light for the ark, and you shall finish it up to a cubit from the top; and you shall put the entrance of the ark in its side; you shall make it with lower, second, and third stories.
And now I am about to bring a flood of water upon the earth to destroy from under heaven all flesh in which is the breath of life; everything that is on the earth shall die.
But I will establish My covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you and your sons and your wife and your sons' wives with you.
And of every living thing, of all flesh, two of every kind you shall bring into the ark to preserve them alive with you; they shall be male and female.
Of the birds according to their kind and of the cattle according to their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind, two of every kind will come to you in order to preserve them alive.
And for your part, take some of every kind of food that is edible, and gather it to yourself, and it will be for food for you and for them.
And Noah did this; according to all that God commanded him, so he did.