Then I lifted up my eyes again and I looked, and there were four chariots coming forth from between the two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of bronze.
With the first chariot were red horses, and with the second chariot were black horses,
And with the third chariot were white horses, and with the fourth chariot were strong, speckled horses.
And I answered and said to the angel who spoke with me, What are these, sir?
And the angel answered and said to me, These are the four winds of heaven who go forth from presenting themselves to the Lord of the whole earth.
With one of the winds the black horses went forth to the land of the north, and the white horses went forth after them, and the speckled horses went forth to the land of the south.
And the strong horses went forth and sought to proceed to go to and fro on the earth. And He said, Proceed to go to and fro on the earth; and they went to and fro on the earth.
Then He called out to me and spoke to me, saying, See, these who are going forth to the land of the north have given My Spirit rest in the land of the north.
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Take from them of the captivity, from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, and go the same day and enter the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have come from Babylon.
Indeed, take the silver and gold, and make a splendid crown and put it upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest,
And speak to him, saying, Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, saying, Here is a man, whose name is the Shoot; and he will shoot forth from his place and will build the temple of Jehovah.
Indeed, it is he who will build the temple of Jehovah; and he will bear majesty and will sit and rule on his throne; and he will be a priest on his throne; and the counsel of peace will be between the two of them.
And the splendid crown will be as a reminder in the temple of Jehovah to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah.
And those who are far off will come and build the temple of Jehovah, and you will know that Jehovah of hosts has sent Me to you. And it will happen, if you fully obey the voice of Jehovah your God.