And the word of Jehovah of hosts came, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy; indeed, I am jealous for her with great wrath.
Thus says Jehovah, I return to Zion, and I will dwell within Jerusalem; and Jerusalem will be called the City of Truth, and the mountain of Jehovah of hosts, the Holy Mountain.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Yet again old men and old women will dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, each with his staff in his hand due to the multitude of his days.
And the streets of the city will be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, If it seems too wonderful in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, will it also be too wonderful in My sight? declares Jehovah of hosts.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I am about to save My people from the land of the east and from the land of the going down of the sun.
And I will bring them, and they will dwell within Jerusalem; and they will be My people and I will be their God in truth and in righteousness.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Let your hands be strong, you who in these days hear these words from the mouth of the prophets who were there in the day when the foundation of the house of Jehovah of hosts, that is, the temple, was laid so that it might be built.
For before those days a man's wages amounted to nothing, and an animal's wages were nothing; and for him who went out or came in there was no peace, because of the adversary; for I set all men each against his neighbor.
But now I will not be to the remnant of this people as I was in the former days, declares Jehovah of hosts;
For there will be peace for the seed: The vine will give forth its fruit, and the land will give forth its produce, and the heavens will give their dew. And I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things.
And just as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you will be a blessing. Do not fear; let your hands be strong.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, Just as I intended to do harm to you when your fathers provoked Me to anger, says Jehovah of hosts, and I did not repent,
So again I intend in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; do not fear.
These are the things which you shall do: Each man speak truth to his neighbor; judge with truth and the judgment of peace in your gates;
And let none of you think evil in your hearts about his neighbor; and do not love a false oath; for all these are the things I hate, declares Jehovah.
Then the word of Jehovah of hosts came to me, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth month and the fast of the seventh month and the fast of the tenth month will become joy and rejoicing and cheerful feasts to the house of Judah; therefore love truth and peace.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Peoples will again come, even the inhabitants of many cities;
And the inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, Let us go at once to entreat the favor of Jehovah and to seek Jehovah of hosts; and the other: I will go too.
Indeed, many peoples and strong nations will come to seek Jehovah of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of Jehovah.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, In those days, from all the languages of the nations, ten men will take hold, indeed, they will take hold of the skirt of a Jewish man, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.