In the third month after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on that very day they came into the wilderness of Sinai.
And when they had journeyed from Rephidim and had come to the wilderness of Sinai, they encamped in the wilderness; and there Israel encamped in front of the mountain.
And Moses went up to God, and Jehovah called to him out of the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob and tell the children of Israel:
You have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to Myself.
Now therefore if you will indeed obey My voice and keep My covenant, then you shall be My personal treasure from among all peoples, for all the earth is Mine.
And you shall be to Me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the children of Israel.
So Moses came and called for the elders of the people and set before them all these words which Jehovah had commanded him.
And all the people answered together and said, All that Jehovah has spoken we will do. And Moses brought back the words of the people to Jehovah.
And Jehovah said to Moses, I am coming to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you and may also believe you forever. Then Moses told the words of the people to Jehovah,
And Jehovah said to Moses, Go to the people, and sanctify them today and tomorrow; and have them wash their garments,
And be ready for the third day; for on the third day Jehovah will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people.
And you shall set limits for the people all around, saying, Be careful that you do not go up on the mountain or touch the border of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death.
No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through; whether beast or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they may come up on the mountain.
And Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their garments.
And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not go near a woman.
And on the third day, when it was morning, there was thunder and lightning, and a thick cloud upon the mountain, and a very loud trumpet sound; and all the people who were in the camp trembled.
And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they stood at the base of the mountain.
Now the whole of Mount Sinai smoked because Jehovah descended upon it in fire, and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace; and the whole mountain shook greatly.
And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him in thunder.
And Jehovah came down upon Mount Sinai at the top of the mountain, and Jehovah called Moses to the top of the mountain; and Moses went up.
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go down; charge the people not to break through to Jehovah to look, lest many of them perish.
And let the priests who come near to Jehovah also sanctify themselves, so that Jehovah does not break forth upon them.
And Moses said to Jehovah, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for You charged us, saying, Set limits around the mountain, and sanctify it.
And Jehovah said to him, Go, get down; then you shall come up again, you and Aaron with you; but do not let the priests and the people force a way through to come up to Jehovah, so that He does not break forth upon them.
So Moses went down to the people and told them.