And a man of the house of Levi went and took a daughter of Levi as wife.
And the woman conceived and bore a son; and when she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him three months.
And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him a papyrus basket and plastered it with tar and pitch; and she put the child in it and placed it among the reeds on the bank of the River.
And his sister stood at a distance to find out what would happen to him.
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the River while her maidens walked alongside the River. And she saw the basket in the midst of the reeds and sent her female servant, and she brought it to her.
And she opened it and saw the child, and there was the boy, crying. And she had compassion on him and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children.
Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call a nurse from the Hebrew women for you that she may nurse the child for you?
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the girl went and called the child's mother.
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child away and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages. So the woman took the child and nursed him.
And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses and said, Because I drew him out of the water.
And in those days, when Moses had grown up, he went out to his brothers and looked on their burdens; and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his brothers.
And he looked this way and that, and when he saw that there was no one there, he struck the Egyptian down and hid him in the sand.
And he went out the next day, and there were two Hebrew men struggling together; and he said to the one who was in the wrong, Why are you beating your companion?
And he said, Who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us? Are you thinking to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? And Moses became frightened and said, Surely the matter is known.
Now when Pharaoh heard of this matter, he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from Pharaoh to dwell in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well.
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
And the shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses rose up and helped them and watered their flock.
And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, Why have you come back so quickly today?
And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and he even drew water for us as well and watered the flock.
And he said to his daughters, And where is he? Why did you leave the man? Invite him to eat a meal.
And Moses agreed to stay with the man, and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter.
And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom, for he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land.
And in the course of those many days the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel groaned because of the bondage. And they cried out, and their cry went up to God because of their bondage.
And God heard their groaning, and God remembered His covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God took notice of them.