Now these are the ordinances which you shall set before them.
If you buy a Hebrew servant, he shall serve six years; but in the seventh he shall go out free without payment to you.
If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he is the husband of a wife, then his wife shall go out with him.
If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself.
But if the servant plainly says, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free;
Then his master shall bring him to God and shall bring him to the door or to the doorpost, and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him forever.
And if a man sells his daughter as a female servant, she shall not go out as the male servants do.
If she displeases her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed; he has no right to sell her to a foreign people, because he has dealt with her unfaithfully.
And if he designated her for his son, he shall deal with her according to the custom of daughters.
If he takes another woman for himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights.
And if he does not do these three things for her, then she shall go out for nothing, without payment of silver.
He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death.
But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God allowed him to fall by his hand, then I will appoint you a place where he may flee to.
And if a man acts presumptuously toward his neighbor, so as to slay him with guile, you shall take him even from My altar so that he may die.
And he who strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
And he who kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or he is found in his possession, shall surely be put to death.
And he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
And if men contend and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist so that he does not die but remains in bed;
If he can rise up and walk around outside on his staff, then he who struck him shall be guiltless; he shall only pay for the loss of his time, until he has made sure he is completely healed.
And if a man strikes his male servant or his female servant with a rod, and the servant dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished.
But if he survives a day or two, he shall not be punished; for he is his property.
And if men struggle together, and they hit a pregnant woman, so that her child is born prematurely, but there is no further mishap, he shall surely be fined what the woman's husband shall impose upon him, and he shall pay as the judges determine.
But if there is further mishap, then you shall give a life for a life,
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot,
A burning for a burning, a wound for a wound, a stripe for a stripe.
And if a man strikes the eye of his male servant or the eye of his female servant and destroys it, he shall let that one go free on account of that one's eye.
And if he knocks out his male servant's tooth or his female servant's tooth, he shall let that one go free on account of that one's tooth.
And if an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be guiltless.
But if the ox was accustomed to goring previously, and its owner had been warned, but he would not keep it in, and it killed a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner shall also be put to death.
If a ransom is imposed on the owner, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is imposed upon him.
If either it gores a son or it gores a daughter, according to this judgment it shall be done to him.
If the ox gores a male servant or a female servant, thirty shekels of silver shall be given to their master, and the ox shall be stoned.
And if a man opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it,
The owner of the pit shall make restitution; he shall give silver to its owner, and the dead animal shall be his.
And if one man's ox injures another's so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide its price; and they shall also divide the dead animal.
Or if it is known that the ox was accustomed to goring previously and its owner would not keep it in, he shall surely give restitution, an ox for an ox, and the dead animal shall become his.