Now the tabernacle you shall make with ten curtains of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet strands; you shall make them with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman.
The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; all the curtains shall have the same measurement.
Five curtains shall be joined to one another; and the other five curtains shall be joined to one another.
And you shall make loops of blue strands on the edge of the one curtain at the end in the set; and likewise you shall make them in the edge of the outermost curtain in the second set.
You shall make fifty loops on the one curtain, and you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is in the second set; the loops shall be opposite one another.
And you shall make fifty clasps of gold, and join the curtains to one another with the clasps, so that the tabernacle may become one.
And you shall make curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains you shall make in all.
The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; the eleven curtains shall have the same measurement.
And you shall join five of the curtains by themselves and six of the curtains by themselves, and you shall double the sixth curtain over at the front of the tent.
And you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outermost in the set, and fifty loops upon the edge of the curtain which is outermost in the second set.
And you shall make fifty clasps of bronze and put the clasps into the loops and join the tent together, so that it may become one.
And the overlapping part that is left over of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that is left over, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle.
And the cubit on the one side and the cubit on the other side, of what is left over in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and on that side, to cover it.
And you shall make a covering for the tent, of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of porpoise skins above it.
And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and one and a half cubits, the width of each board.
Each board shall have two tenons, joined to one another; thus you shall do for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
And you shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under the next board for its two tenons.
And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, twenty boards;
And their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board and two sockets under the next board.
And for the rear of the tabernacle westward you shall make six boards.
And two boards you shall make for the corners of the tabernacle in the rear.
And they shall be double below, and at its top they shall be completely joined to a single ring; thus it shall be for both of them; they shall be for the two corners.
And there shall be eight boards with their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board and two sockets under the next board.
And you shall make bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
And the middle bar shall pass through in the center of the boards from end to end.
And you shall overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold as holders for the bars; and you shall overlay the bars with gold.
And you shall set up the tabernacle according to its plan, which you were shown in the mountain.
And you shall make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen; it shall be made with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman.
And you shall hang it upon four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, and they shall stand on four sockets of silver.
And you shall hang up the veil under the clasps and bring in the Ark of the Testimony there within the veil; and the veil shall make a separation for you between the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies.
And you shall put the expiation cover upon the Ark of the Testimony in the Holy of Holies.
And you shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand opposite the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; and the table you shall put on the north side.
And you shall make a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer.
And for the screen you shall make five pillars of acacia and overlay them with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, and you shall cast five sockets of bronze for them.