And you shall make the altar of acacia wood, a length of five cubits and a width of five cubits; the altar shall be square; and three cubits, its height.
And you shall make its horns upon its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it, and you shall overlay it with bronze.
And you shall make its pots to remove its ashes, and its shovels and its basins and its forks and its firepans; all its utensils you shall make of bronze.
And you shall make a grating, a network of bronze for it; and on the net you shall make four bronze rings at its four ends.
And you shall put it below, under the ledge of the altar so that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
And you shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with bronze.
And its poles shall be put into the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar when it is carried.
You shall make it hollow with boards; as it was shown to you in the mountain, so shall they make it.
And you shall make the court of the tabernacle: On the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen, a length of one hundred cubits for one side;
And its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets shall be of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods shall be of silver.
And likewise on the north side, in length there shall be hangings a length of one hundred cubits, and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods shall be of silver.
And for the width of the court on the west side there shall be hangings of fifty cubits, with their ten pillars and their ten sockets.
And the width of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
And there shall be fifteen cubits of hangings for the one side of the gate, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
And there shall be fifteen cubits of hangings for the other side, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
And for the gate of the court there shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer; with their four pillars and their four sockets.
All the pillars around the court shall be connected with silver, with their hooks of silver and their sockets of bronze.
The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits; and the width, fifty at each end; and the height, five cubits; of fine twined linen, and their sockets of bronze.
All the utensils of the tabernacle used in all its service and all its pegs and all the pegs of the court shall be of bronze.
And you shall command the children of Israel to bring to you pure oil of beaten olives for the light, to make the lamps burn continually.
In the Tent of Meeting, outside the veil which is before the Testimony, Aaron and his sons shall maintain it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah; it shall be a perpetual statute to be observed throughout their generations by the children of Israel.