And bring near to yourself Aaron your brother and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may serve Me as a priest--Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons.
And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty.
And you shall speak to all who are wise in heart, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they make Aaron's garments to sanctify him, that he may serve Me as a priest.
And these are the garments which they shall make: a breastplate and an ephod and a robe and a tunic of checkered work, a turban and a girding sash. So they shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and for his sons that he may serve Me as a priest.
They therefore shall take the gold and the blue and the purple and the scarlet strands and the fine linen,
And they shall make the ephod of gold thread, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine twined linen, the work of a skillful workman.
It shall have two shoulder pieces joined to its two edges, so that it may be joined together.
And the skillfully woven band, which is on it for its fastening, shall be like it in workmanship, of one piece with it; of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen.
And you shall take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel,
Six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the remaining six on the other stone, according to their birth.
With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, you shall engrave the two stones, according to the names of the sons of Israel; you shall make them enclosed in settings of gold.
And you shall put the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel. And Aaron shall bear their names before Jehovah on his two shoulders for a memorial.
And you shall make settings of gold,
And two chains of pure gold; you shall make them twisted, a corded work, and you shall put the chains of cords on the settings.
And you shall make a breastplate of judgment, the work of a skillful workman; like the work of the ephod you shall make it; of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands, and of fine twined linen you shall make it.
It shall be square and doubled; a span its length and a span its width.
And you shall enclose in it enclosures of stones, four rows of stones: the first row shall be a row of a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald;
And the second row, a carbuncle, a sapphire, and a diamond;
And the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
And the fourth row, a chrysolite, and an onyx, and a jasper; they shall be set in gold in their enclosures.
And the stones shall be according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names; they shall be like the engravings of a signet, each according to its name, for the twelve tribes.
And you shall make on the breastplate twisted chains, a corded work of pure gold.
And you shall make on the breastplate two rings of gold and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
And you shall put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
And you shall put the two other ends of the two cords on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it.
And you shall make two rings of gold, and you shall put them upon the two ends of the breastplate upon its edge, which is toward the ephod on the inside.
And you shall make two rings of gold and shall put them on the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod on the front of it, close to the place where it is joined, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
And they shall bind the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue strands, that it may be upon the skillfully woven band of the ephod and that the breastplate may not come loose from the ephod.
So Aaron shall bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastplate of judgment on his heart when he goes into the sanctuary, for a memorial before Jehovah continually.
And you shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be on Aaron's heart when he goes in before Jehovah, and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his heart before Jehovah continually.
And you shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue strands.
And there shall be an opening for the head in its center; around its opening there shall be a binding edge of woven work, like the opening of a coat of mail, so that it will not be torn.
And you shall make on its hem pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet strands, all around its hem, and bells of gold between them all around:
A golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, on the hem of the robe all around.
And it shall be upon Aaron when he ministers, and its sound shall be heard when he goes into the sanctuary before Jehovah and when he comes out, so that he may not die.
And you shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave upon it, like the engravings of a signet: HOLINESS TO JEHOVAH.
And you shall put it on a cord of blue strands, and it shall be on the turban; it shall be at the front of the turban.
And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, and Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel sanctify for all their holy gifts; and it shall always be on his forehead, that they may be accepted before Jehovah.
And you shall weave the tunic of fine linen, and you shall make a turban of fine linen, and you shall make a girding sash, the work of an embroiderer.
And for Aaron's sons you shall make tunics, and you shall make for them girding sashes, and you shall make for them high hats, for glory and for beauty.
And you shall put them upon Aaron your brother and upon his sons with him, and you shall anoint them and consecrate them and sanctify them, that they may serve Me as priests.
And you shall make them linen trousers to cover their naked flesh; they shall reach from the loins even to the thighs;
And they shall be upon Aaron and upon his sons when they go into the Tent of Meeting or when they come near to the altar to minister in the sanctuary, that they may not bear iniquity and die. It shall be a perpetual statute for him and for his seed after him.