And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
See, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
And I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom and with understanding and with knowledge and with all kinds of workmanship,
To fashion skillful designs, to work in gold and in silver and in bronze,
And in the cutting of stones for setting and in the carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship.
And now, I Myself have appointed with him Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are wise in heart I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded you:
The Tent of Meeting, and the Ark of the Testimony and the expiation cover that is on it, and all the utensils of the tent,
And the table and its utensils, and the pure lampstand with all its utensils, and the altar of incense,
And the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the laver and its base,
And the finely worked garments, both the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for them to serve as priests,
And the anointing oil, and the incense of fragrant spices for the sanctuary. According to all that I have commanded you, they shall do.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, You shall surely keep My Sabbaths; for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am Jehovah who sanctifies you.
Therefore you shall keep the Sabbath, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day there is a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to Jehovah; whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death.
Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant.
It is a sign between Me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed.
And when He had finished speaking with him upon Mount Sinai, He gave to Moses the two tablets of the Testimony, tablets of stone, written with the finger of God.