And Moses gathered all the assembly of the children of Israel and said to them, These are the words which Jehovah has commanded you to do.
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to Jehovah; whoever does any work on it shall be put to death.
You shall kindle no fire in any of your dwellings on the Sabbath day.
And Moses spoke to all the assembly of the children of Israel, saying, This is what Jehovah has commanded, saying,
Take from among yourselves a heave offering to Jehovah; whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, the heave offering of Jehovah: gold and silver and bronze,
And blue and purple and scarlet strands, and fine linen, and goats' hair,
And rams' skins dyed red, and porpoise skins, and acacia wood,
And oil for the light, and spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
And onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
And let every man who is wise in heart among you come and make all that Jehovah has commanded:
The tabernacle, its tent, and its covering; its clasps and its boards; its bars, its pillars, and its sockets;
The Ark and its poles, the expiation cover, and the veil of the screen;
The table and its poles and all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
And the lampstand for the light and its utensils and its lamps, and the oil for the light;
And the altar of incense and its poles; and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense; and the screen for the entrance, at the entrance of the tabernacle;
The altar of burnt offering, with its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils; the laver and its base;
The hangings of the court, its pillars, and its sockets, and the screen for the gate of the court;
The pegs of the tabernacle and the pegs of the court, and their cords;
The finely worked garments for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for them to serve as priests.
And all the assembly of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
And they came, everyone whose heart lifted him up and everyone whose spirit made him willing, and brought the heave offering of Jehovah for the work of the Tent of Meeting and for all its service and for the holy garments.
And they came, men together with women, as many as were of a willing heart, and brought nose rings and earrings and signet rings and pendants, all kinds of articles of gold; even every man who waved a wave offering of gold to Jehovah.
And every man with whom was found blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine linen and goats' hair and rams' skins dyed red and porpoise skins brought them.
Everyone who offered a heave offering of silver and bronze brought the heave offering of Jehovah, and every man with whom was found acacia wood for any work of the service brought it.
And all the women who were wise in heart spun with their hands and brought what they had spun, the blue and the purple and the scarlet strands and the fine linen.
And all the women whose heart lifted them up in wisdom spun the goats' hair.
And the leaders brought the onyx stones and the stones for setting for the ephod and for the breastplate,
And the spices and the oil for the light and for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense.
The children of Israel brought a freewill offering to Jehovah, every man and woman whose heart made them willing to bring for all the work, which Jehovah had commanded through Moses to be done.
And Moses said to the children of Israel, See, Jehovah has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
And He has filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, with understanding, and with knowledge, and with all kinds of workmanship;
Even to fashion skillful designs, to work in gold and in silver and in bronze,
And in the cutting of stones for setting and in the carving of wood, to work in all kinds of skillful workmanship.
And He has put in his heart to teach, both he and Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
He has filled them with wisdom of heart, to work all kinds of workmanship, of an engraver and of a skillful workman and of an embroiderer in blue and in purple and in scarlet strands and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of those who do all kinds of workmanship and of those who fashion skillful designs.