And Bezalel and Oholiab and every man who is wise in heart, in whom Jehovah has put wisdom and understanding to know how to do all the work for the service of the sanctuary, shall work according to all that Jehovah has commanded.
And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every man who was wise in heart, in whose heart Jehovah had put wisdom, even everyone whose heart lifted him up to come to the work to do it.
And they received from Moses every heave offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to carry it out. And they still kept bringing to him freewill offerings every morning.
And all the wise men who did all the work of the sanctuary came, every man from his work which he was doing,
And spoke to Moses, saying, The people are bringing much more than enough for the service of the work which Jehovah commanded us to do.
And Moses gave commandment; and a proclamation was passed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman produce any more material for the heave offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing.
For the material they had was sufficient and more than enough for all the work, to do it.
And all the wise in heart among those who did the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains, of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet strands, with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman. Bezalel made them.
The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; all the curtains had the same measurement.
And he joined five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he joined to one another.
And he made loops of blue strands upon the edge of the one curtain at the end in the set; likewise he made them in the edge of the outermost curtain in the second set.
He made fifty loops on the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set; the loops were opposite one another.
And he made fifty clasps of gold and joined the curtains to one another with the clasps; so the tabernacle became one.
And he made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains he made in all.
The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain, four cubits; the eleven curtains had the same measurement.
And he joined five of the curtains by themselves, and six of the curtains by themselves.
And he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the set, and fifty loops he made upon the edge of the curtain which was outermost in the second set.
And he made fifty clasps of bronze to join the tent together, that it might become one.
And he made a covering for the tent, of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of porpoise skins above it.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
Ten cubits was the length of a board, and one and a half cubits, the width of each board.
Each board had two tenons joined to one another; thus he did for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
And he made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under the next board for its two tenons.
And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty boards
And their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board and two sockets under the next board.
And for the rear of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.
And two boards he made for the corners of the tabernacle in the rear.
And they were double below, and at its top they were completely joined to a single ring; thus he did to both of them for the two corners.
And there were eight boards with their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two sockets under every board.
And he made bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
And he made the middle bar to pass through in the center of the boards from end to end.
And he overlaid the boards with gold and made their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
And he made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen; he made it with cherubim, the work of a skillful workman.
And he made for it four pillars of acacia and overlaid them with gold; their hooks were of gold. And he cast for them four sockets of silver.
And he made a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer,
And its five pillars with their hooks. And he overlaid their capitals and their connecting rods with gold, and their five sockets were of bronze.