And Bezalel made the Ark of acacia wood: two and a half cubits was its length; and one and a half cubits, its width; and one and a half cubits, its height.
And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a rim of gold around it.
And he cast four rings of gold for it, on its four feet; and two rings were on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
And he made poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.
And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the Ark to carry the Ark.
And he made an expiation cover of pure gold: two and a half cubits was its length, and one and a half cubits, its width.
And he made two cherubim of gold; of beaten work he made them, at the two ends of the expiation cover,
One cherub at the one end and one cherub at the other end; of one piece with the expiation cover he made the cherubim at its two ends.
And the cherubim spread out their wings above the cover, covering the expiation cover with their wings, with their faces toward one another; the faces of the cherubim were toward the expiation cover.
And he made the table of acacia wood: two cubits was its length, and a cubit its width, and one and a half cubits its height.
And he overlaid it with pure gold and made a rim of gold around it.
And he made a frame of a handbreadth around it, and he made a rim of gold for its frame around it.
And he cast for it four rings of gold and put the rings on the four corners that were on its four feet.
The rings were close to the frame as holders for the poles to carry the table.
And he made the poles of acacia wood to carry the table and overlaid them with gold.
And he made the utensils which were to be upon the table: its plates and its cups and its bowls and its pitchers with which to pour out drink offerings, of pure gold.
And he made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand with its base and its shaft of beaten work; its cups, its calyxes, and its blossom buds were of one piece with it.
And there were six branches going out of its sides; three branches of the lampstand out of one of its sides, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other side;
Three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a calyx and a blossom bud; and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a calyx and a blossom bud--so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
And on the lampstand were four cups made like almond blossoms, its calyxes and its blossom buds;
And a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, and a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, and a calyx under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of it.
Their calyxes and their branches were of one piece with it; all of it was one beaten work of pure gold.
And he made its seven lamps and its tongs and its firepans, of pure gold.
He made it of a talent of pure gold, and all its utensils.
And he made the altar of incense of acacia wood; a cubit was its length, and a cubit, its width, square; and two cubits, its height; its horns were of one piece with it.
And he overlaid it with pure gold, its top and its sides around it and its horns; and he made a rim of gold around it.
And he made for it two golden rings under its rim, on its two sides, on its opposite sides, as holders for poles with which to carry it.
And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.
And he made the holy anointing oil and the pure fragrant incense, the work of a compounder.