And he made the altar of burnt offering, of acacia wood; five cubits was its length, and five cubits, its width, square; and three cubits, its height.
And he made its horns upon its four corners; its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze.
And he made all the utensils of the altar: the pots and the shovels and the basins, the forks and the firepans; all its utensils he made of bronze.
And he made a grating of network of bronze for the altar, under its ledge beneath, reaching halfway up.
And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grating of bronze, as holders for the poles.
And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze.
And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, with which to carry it; he made it hollow, with boards.
And he made the laver of bronze and its base of bronze from the mirrors of the serving women who served at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
And he made the court. On the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits;
Their twenty pillars and their twenty sockets were of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver.
And on the north side, one hundred cubits; their twenty pillars and their twenty sockets were of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver.
And on the west side there were hangings of fifty cubits, with their ten pillars and their ten sockets; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver.
And the width of the east side eastward was fifty cubits.
The hangings for the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three sockets;
And so for the other side; on both sides of the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen.
And the sockets for the pillars were of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting rods were of silver; and the overlaying of their capitals was of silver; and all the pillars of the court were connected with silver.
And the screen for the gate of the court was the work of an embroiderer, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen; and twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the width was five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court.
And their four pillars and their four sockets were of bronze; their hooks were of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their connecting rods were of silver.
And all the pegs of the tabernacle and of the court all around were of bronze.
This is the sum of the things for the tabernacle, the Tabernacle of the Testimony, as they were counted according to the commandment of Moses for the service of the Levites by the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
And Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that Jehovah commanded Moses.
And with him was Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver and a skillful workman and an embroiderer in blue and in purple and in scarlet strands and in fine linen.
All the gold that was used for the work, in all the work of the sanctuary, even the gold of the wave offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred thirty shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary.
And the silver of those who were numbered of the assembly was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary;
A beka a head, that is, half a shekel, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for each one who was enrolled among their numbering, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred three thousand, five hundred fifty men.
And the hundred talents of silver were for casting the sockets of the sanctuary and the sockets of the veil; one hundred sockets for the hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
And of the one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars and overlaid their capitals and made connecting rods for them.
And the bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents and two thousand four hundred shekels.
And with it he made the sockets for the entrance of the Tent of Meeting and the bronze altar and the bronze grating for it and all the utensils of the altar
And the sockets around the court and the sockets of the gate of the court and all the pegs of the tabernacle and all the pegs around the court.