And from the blue and the purple and the scarlet strands, they made finely worked garments for ministering in the sanctuary, and made the holy garments for Aaron, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And Bezalel made the ephod of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen.
And they beat the gold into thin sheets and cut them into threads, to work into the blue and into the purple and into the scarlet strands and into the fine linen, the work of a skillful workman.
They made shoulder pieces for it, joined to it; at the two edges it was joined.
And the skillfully woven band, which was on it for its fastening, was of one piece with it and like it in workmanship, of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and fine twined linen, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And they made the onyx stones enclosed in settings of gold, engraved with the engravings of a signet according to the names of the sons of Israel.
And he put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And he made the breastplate, the work of a skillful workman, like the work of the ephod, of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet strands and of fine twined linen.
It was square; they made the breastplate doubled; a span its length and a span its width when doubled.
And they filled it with four rows of stones. The first row was a row of a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald;
And the second row, a carbuncle, a sapphire, and a diamond;
And the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
And the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in settings of gold in their enclosures.
And the stones were according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, each according to his name, for the twelve tribes.
And they made on the breastplate twisted chains, a corded work of pure gold.
And they made two settings of gold and two rings of gold, and put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
And they put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
And the two other ends of the two cords they put on the two settings and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it.
And they made two rings of gold and put them on the two ends of the breastplate on its edge, which was toward the ephod on the inside.
And they made two rings of gold and put them on the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod on the front of it, close to the place where it is joined, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
And they bound the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue strands, that it might be upon the skillfully woven band of the ephod and that the breastplate might not come loose from the ephod, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue strands,
And the opening of the robe in its center like the opening of a coat of mail, with a binding edge around its opening so that it would not be torn.
And they made on the hem of the robe pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet strands, twined.
And they made bells of pure gold and put the bells between the pomegranates on the hem of the robe all around, between the pomegranates;
A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, on the hem of the robe all around, to minister in; as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And they made the tunics of fine linen of woven work for Aaron and for his sons,
And the turban of fine linen, and the headdresses of high hats of fine linen, and the linen trousers of fine twined linen,
And the girding sash of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet strands, the work of an embroiderer, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold and wrote an inscription upon it, like the engravings of a signet: HOLINESS TO JEHOVAH.
And they tied to it a cord of blue strands to fasten it on the turban above, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting was finished, and the children of Israel did according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses; so they did.
And they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its furnishings, its clasps, its boards, its bars, and its pillars and its sockets;
And the covering of rams' skins dyed red and the covering of porpoise skins, and the veil of the screen;
The Ark of the Testimony and its poles and the expiation cover;
The table, all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
The pure lampstand, its lamps, even the lamps set in order, and all its utensils, and the oil for the light;
And the golden altar and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense and the screen for the entrance of the tent;
The bronze altar, and its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils; the laver and its base;
The hangings of the court, its pillars, and its sockets; and the screen for the gate of the court, its cords, and its pegs; and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle, for the Tent of Meeting;
The finely worked garments for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for them to serve as priests.
According to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did all the work.
And Moses saw all the work; and there it was--they had done it; just as Jehovah had commanded, so they had done. And Moses blessed them.