And Jehovah said to Moses, Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh; for because of a mighty hand he will let them go, and because of a mighty hand he will drive them out of his land.
And God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am Jehovah.
And I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as the All-sufficient God; but by My name Jehovah I did not make Myself known to them.
And I also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojournings, in which they sojourned.
And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians have enslaved; and I have remembered My covenant.
Therefore say to the children of Israel, I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment.
And I will take you to Myself as My people, and I will be your God; and you shall know that I am Jehovah your God, the One who brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
And I will bring you to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it to you as a possession. I am Jehovah.
And Moses spoke this to the children of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses on account of anguish of spirit and harsh bondage.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Go, speak to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.
And Moses spoke before Jehovah, saying, The children of Israel do not now listen to me. How then will Pharaoh listen to me, since I am of uncircumcised lips?
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron and gave them a charge for the children of Israel and for Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These are the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon.
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon and Kohath and Merari; and the years of Levi's life were one hundred thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel; and the years of Kohath's life were one hundred thirty-three years.
And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
And Amram took Jochebed his father's sister for himself as wife, and she bore him Aaron and Moses; and the years of Amram's life were one hundred thirty-seven years.
And the sons of Izhar: Korah and Nepheg and Zichri.
And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael and Elzaphan and Sithri.
And Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, for himself as wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
And the sons of Korah: Assir and Elkanah and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites.
And Eleazar, Aaron's son, took for himself one of the daughters of Putiel as wife, and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites according to their families.
It was this same Aaron and Moses to whom Jehovah said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
It was they who spoke to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt; it is the same Moses and Aaron.
And on the day when Jehovah spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, I am Jehovah; speak to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, all that I speak to you.
But Moses said before Jehovah, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips. How then will Pharaoh listen to me?