Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, Let My people go that they may serve Me.
But if you refuse to let them go, I will now smite all your territory with frogs.
And the River shall swarm with frogs, and they will go up from the River and come into your house and into your bedchamber and upon your bed, and into the houses of your servants and upon your people, and into your ovens and into your kneading bowls.
And the frogs shall come up upon you and upon your people and upon all your servants.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the watercourses, and over the pools, and make frogs come up on the land of Egypt.
So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt.
And the magicians did the same with their secret spells and brought up frogs on the land of Egypt.
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron and said, Entreat Jehovah to take away the frogs from me and from my people, and I will let the people go to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And Moses said to Pharaoh, May it please you, and not me, as to the time. When shall I make entreaty for you and for your servants and for your people, to cut off the frogs from you and from your houses so that they remain in the River only?
And he said, Tomorrow. And he said, It will be according to your word, that you may know that there is no one like Jehovah our God.
And the frogs shall depart from you and from your houses and from your servants and from your people; they shall remain in the River only.
Then Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh. And Moses cried out to Jehovah concerning the frogs which He had brought upon Pharaoh.
And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses, and the frogs died in the houses, in the courts, and in the fields.
And they gathered them together, heap after heap, and the land stank.
But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart and did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had said.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your staff, and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
And they did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth, and there were lice on man and on beast; all the dust of the earth became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
And the magicians did the same with their secret spells, to try to bring forth lice, but they could not; so there were lice on man and on beast.
Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaoh's heart hardened, and he did not listen to them, just as Jehovah had said.
Then Jehovah said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and present yourself before Pharaoh as he is going out to the water, and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, Let My people go that they may serve Me.
For if you will not let My people go, then I will at once send swarms of flies against you and against your servants and against your people and against your houses; and the houses of the Egyptians will be full of swarms of flies, as well as the ground on which they are.
But on that day I will set apart the land of Goshen, where My people are staying, so that no swarms of flies will be there, so that you may know that I am Jehovah in the midst of the land.
And I will put a redemption between My people and your people. Tomorrow this sign shall occur.
And Jehovah did so; and heavy swarms of flies came into the house of Pharaoh and into his servants' houses, and throughout the land of Egypt the land was ruined because of the swarms of flies.
And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, Go, sacrifice to your God in the land.
And Moses said, It would not be right to do so, for we will sacrifice to Jehovah our God what is an abomination to the Egyptians. If we sacrifice what is an abomination to the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us?
We must go a three days' journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to Jehovah our God just as He commands us.
And Pharaoh said, I will let you go that you may sacrifice to Jehovah your God in the wilderness; only you shall not go very far away. Make entreaty for me.
And Moses said, I am now going out from you, and I will entreat Jehovah that the swarms of flies would depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people tomorrow; only do not let Pharaoh deal deceitfully anymore by not letting the people go to sacrifice to Jehovah.
So Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated Jehovah.
And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses, and He removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; not one remained.
However Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, and he did not let the people go.