Dead flies cause the perfumer's ointment to stink, to ferment; so a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor.
A wise man's heart inclines to his right, but a fool's heart inclines to his left.
And also, when the fool walks on the way, his sense fails him, and he tells everyone that he is a fool.
If the ruler's spirit rises up against you, do not leave your place; for composure allays great offenses.
There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, like an error that proceeds from the ruler:
Folly is set in many high places, and rich men sit in a low place.
I have seen servants on horses and princes walking on the earth like servants.
He who digs a pit will fall into it, and he who breaks through a wall will be bitten by a serpent;
Whoever quarries stones will be hurt by them, and whoever splits logs will be endangered by them.
If the iron is blunt, and one does not whet the edge, then he must apply more strength; but wisdom has the advantage of giving success.
If the serpent bites before it is charmed, then there is no advantage in a charmer.
The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious, but the lips of a fool swallow him up.
The beginning of the words of his mouth is folly, and the end of his talk is wicked madness.
Yet the fool multiplies words. No man knows what will be; and what will be after him, who can tell him?
The labor of fools wears them out, because they do not know even how to get to town.
Woe to you, O land whose king is a young boy and whose princes feast in the morning!
Happy are you, O land whose king is the son of nobles and whose princes feast at the proper time, for strength and not for drunkenness!
Through slothfulness the rafters sag, and through idleness of hands the house leaks.
They make a feast for laughter, and wine makes life merry, and money is the answer to everything.
Do not curse the king even in your thought, and do not curse a rich man in your bedroom; for a bird of heaven will carry the sound, or something with wings will tell the matter.