Guard your steps when you go to the house of God, and draw near to listen rather than to offer the sacrifice of fools; for they do not know that they are doing evil.
Do not be rash with your mouth, and let not your heart hastily utter anything before God; for God is in heaven and you are on the earth; therefore let your words be few.
For a dream comes through a multitude of travail, and a fool's voice through a multitude of words.
When you make a vow to God, do not delay in paying it; for He takes no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow.
It is better that you do not vow than that you vow and not pay.
Do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin, and do not say before the messenger that it was a mistake. Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the works of your hands?
For in the multitude of dreams and in many words are also vanities. Rather, fear God.
If you see the oppression of the poor and the wresting of justice and righteousness in a province, do not be astonished at the matter; for one higher official watches over another high official, and there are higher officials over them.
And a king who cultivates the field is always an advantage for a land.
He who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver, nor he who loves abundance with income. This also is vanity.
When goods increase, those who eat them increase; so what advantage do their owners have except to see them with their eyes?
Sweet is the sleep of the laborer, whether he eats little or much; but the fullness of the rich will not let him sleep.
There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun: riches kept by their owner to his own hurt,
And those riches were lost in a bad venture; and having begotten a son, he had nothing in his hand.
As he came forth from his mother's womb, he will return naked as he came; and he will take nothing of his labor that he may carry in his hand.
And this also is a grievous evil: in all points, as he came, so will he go; so what is the advantage to him who has labored for the wind?
Throughout all his days he also eats in darkness and has much vexation and sickness and resentment.
Here is what I have seen to be good and what is pleasant: to eat and to drink and to taste enjoyment in all his labor by which he labors under the sun during the few days of his life, which God has given him; for this is his portion.
Moreover, for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has empowered him to eat of them and to take his portion and to rejoice in his labor--this is the gift of God.
For he will not brood much over the days of his life, because God keeps him occupied with the gladness of his heart.