The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham:
Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers,
And Judah begot Pharez and Zarah of Tamar, and Pharez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Aram,
And Aram begot Aminadab, and Aminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon,
And Salmon begot Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begot Obed of Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse,
And Jesse begot David the king. And David begot Solomon of her who had been the wife of Uriah,
And Solomon begot Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa,
And Asa begot Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah,
And Uzziah begot Jotham, and Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah,
And Hezekiah begot Manasseh, and Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah.
And Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
And after the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Salathiel, and Salathiel begot Zerubbabel,
And Zerubbabel begot Abiud, and Abiud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor,
And Azor begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud,
And Eliud begot Eleazar, and Eleazar begot Matthan, and Matthan begot Jacob,
And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
Thus all the generations from Abraham until David are fourteen generations, and from David until the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon until the Christ, fourteen generations.
Now the origin of Jesus Christ was in this way: His mother, Mary, after she had been engaged to Joseph, before they came together, was found to be with child of the Holy Spirit.
And Joseph her husband, being righteous and not willing to disgrace her openly, intended to send her away secretly.
But while he pondered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary your wife, for that which has been begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit.
And she will bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for it is He who will save His people from their sins.
Now all this has happened so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
"Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel" (which is translated, God with us).
And when Joseph awoke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took to himself his wife.
And he did not know her until she bore a son. And he called His name Jesus.