Now late on the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave.
And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended out of heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it.
And his appearance was like lightning, and his garment as white as snow.
And for fear of him the guards shook and became like dead men.
And the angel answered and said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are seeking Jesus, the crucified.
He is not here, for He has been raised, even as He said. Come, see the place where He was lying.
And go quickly and tell His disciples that He has been raised from the dead, and behold, He goes before you into Galilee. There you will see Him. Behold, I have told you.
And they went away quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to report this to His disciples.
And behold, Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice! And they came to Him and took hold of His feet and worshipped Him.
Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and report to My brothers that they should go into Galilee, and there they will see Me.
And as they were going, behold, some from the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened.
And after the chief priests had gathered with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
Saying, Say this, His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we slept.
And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and make sure that you have nothing to worry about.
And they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this account has been widely spread among the Jews until this very day.
And the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus directed them.
And when they saw Him, they worshipped Him, though some doubted.
And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.
Go therefore and disciple all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you all the days until the consummation of the age.