Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil.
And when He had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward He became hungry.
And the tempter came and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, speak that these stones may become loaves of bread.
But He answered and said, It is written, "Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out through the mouth of God."
Then the devil took Him into the holy city and set Him on the wing of the temple,
And said to Him, If You are the Son of God, cast Yourself down; for it is written, "To His angels He shall give charge concerning You, and on their hands they shall bear You up, lest You strike Your foot against a stone."
Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, "You shall not test the Lord your God."
Again, the devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
And he said to Him, All these will I give You if You will fall down and worship me.
Then Jesus said to him, Go away, Satan! For it is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve."
Then the devil left Him, and behold, angels came and ministered to Him.
Now when He heard that John was delivered up, He withdrew into Galilee.
And leaving Nazareth, He came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is beside the sea in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali,
In order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
"Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the way to the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles:
The people sitting in darkness have seen a great light; and to those sitting in the region and shadow of death, to them light has risen."
From that time Jesus began to proclaim and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
And while He was walking beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
And He said to them, Come after Me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And immediately leaving the nets, they followed Him.
And going on from there, He saw another two brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and He called them.
And immediately leaving the boat and their father, they followed Him.
And Jesus went about in all of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every sickness among the people.
And the report concerning Him went out into all of Syria; and they brought to Him all who were ill, those afflicted with various diseases and torments and those possessed by demons and epileptics and paralytics; and He healed them.
And great crowds followed Him from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan.