And the rulers of the people dwelt in Jerusalem, and the rest of the people cast lots in order to bring one in ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, while nine-tenths remained in the other cities.
And the people blessed all the men who offered themselves willingly to dwell in Jerusalem.
Now these are the heads of the province who dwelt in Jerusalem (but in the cities of Judah all dwelt in their possession in their cities, that is, Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the temple servants, and the children of Solomon's servants):
And in Jerusalem some of the children of Judah and some of the children of Benjamin dwelt. Of the children of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the children of Perez;
And Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite.
All the sons of Perez who dwelt in Jerusalem were four hundred sixty-eight valiant men.
And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah;
And after him Gabbai and Sallai: nine hundred twenty-eight.
And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city.
Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God,
And their brothers who did the work of the house, eight hundred twenty-two; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah,
And his brothers, heads of fathers' houses, two hundred forty-two; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
And their brothers, mighty men of valor, one hundred twenty-eight; and their overseer was Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim.
And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;
And Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the heads of the Levites, who were over the outside work of the house of God;
And Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, who was the first to begin the thanksgiving in prayer, with Bakbukiah, the second among his brothers; and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four.
And the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers, who kept watch at the gates, were one hundred seventy-two.
And the rest of Israel, the priests, and the Levites were in all the cities of Judah, every one in his own inheritance.
But the temple servants dwelt on the Ophel. And Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants.
And the overseer of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, for the work of the house of God.
For there was a commandment from the king concerning them and fixed provisions for the singers, as each day required.
And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the children of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people.
And as for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Judah dwelt in Kiriath-arba and its villages, and in Dibon and its villages, and in Jekabzeel and its outlying villages,
And in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and Beth-pelet,
And in Hazar-shual, and in Beer-sheba and its villages,
And in Ziklag, and in Meconah and in its villages,
And in En-rimmon, and in Zorah, and in Jarmuth,
Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its villages. So they encamped from Beer-sheba as far as the valley of Hinnom.
And the children of Benjamin dwelt from Geba onward, at Michmash and Aija, and at Bethel and its villages,
At Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
And certain courses of the Levites in Judah were joined to Benjamin.