Now concerning the collection for the saints, just as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also do.
On the first day of the week each one of you should lay aside in store to himself whatever he may have been prospered, that no collections be made when I come.
And when I arrive, whomever you approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
And if it is fitting for me also to go, they will go with me.
Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I will pass through Macedonia.
And perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me forward wherever I may go.
For I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I am hoping to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost,
For a door is opened to me, great and efficacious, and there are many opposers.
Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; for he is working the work of the Lord, even as I am.
Let no one therefore despise him, but send him forward in peace that he may come to me; for I am awaiting him with the brothers.
And concerning our brother Apollos, I urged him many times to come to you with the brothers; yet it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity.
Watch, stand firm in the faith, be full-grown men, be strong.
Let all your matters be done in love.
Now I exhort you, brothers: You know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and they have set themselves to minister to the saints;
You also be subject to such ones, and to everyone co-working and laboring.
Now I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these have filled up the lack caused by your absence;
For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Acknowledge therefore such ones.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you much in the Lord, with the church, which is in their house.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
The greeting in my own hand--Paul.
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed! The Lord comes!
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love in Christ Jesus be with you all.