And I, when I came to you, brothers, came not according to excellence of speech or of wisdom, announcing to you the mystery of God.
For I did not determine to know anything among you except Jesus Christ, and this One crucified.
And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling;
And my speech and my proclamation were not in persuasive words of wisdom but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
In order that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
But we do speak wisdom among those who are full-grown, yet a wisdom not of this age nor of the rulers of this age, who are being brought to nought;
But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom which has been hidden, which God predestined before the ages for our glory,
Which none of the rulers of this age have known; for if they had known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory;
But as it is written, "Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and which have not come up in man's heart; things which God has prepared for those who love Him."
But to us God has revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
For who among men knows the things of man, except the spirit of man which is in him? In the same way, the things of God also no one has known except the Spirit of God.
But we have received not the spirit of the world but the Spirit which is from God, that we may know the things which have been graciously given to us by God;
Which things also we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual things with spiritual words.
But a soulish man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him and he is not able to know them because they are discerned spiritually.
But the spiritual man discerns all things, but he himself is discerned by no one.
For who has known the mind of the Lord and will instruct Him? But we have the mind of Christ.