In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign; and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
And Jehoash did what was right in the sight of Jehovah all the days in which Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the sanctified things which goes into the house of Jehovah--the money of everyone who passes through the numbering, the money of each person's assessment, and all the money that comes up in the heart of anyone to bring into the house of Jehovah--
Let the priests take, each man from his acquaintance; and they shall repair what is broken in the house, wherever anything is found broken.
But as of the twenty-third year of King Jehoash, the priests had not repaired what was broken in the house.
So King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the priests and said to them, Why have you not been repairing what is broken in the house? Now therefore take no more money from your acquaintances, but deliver it for what is broken in the house.
And the priests agreed that they would neither take money from the people nor repair what was broken in the house.
Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid, and he put it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into the house of Jehovah. And the priests who guarded the threshold put all the money that came into the house of Jehovah into it.
And whenever they saw that there was a large amount of money in the chest, the king's scribe and the high priest would go up and bind the money that was found in the house of Jehovah in bags and count it.
And they would give the money that was weighed out into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and these would pay it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the house of Jehovah,
And to the masons and to the stone hewers and for the purchase of timber and hewn stone, to repair what was broken in the house of Jehovah, and for any other outlay to repair the house.
But there were no cups of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, or any vessels of gold or any vessels of silver prepared for the house of Jehovah out of the money that was brought into the house of Jehovah;
For they gave it all to those who did the work, who repaired the house of Jehovah with it.
And they did not ask for an accounting from the men into whose hands they had given the money to use for doing the work, for these worked faithfully.
The money from the trespass offerings and the money from the sin offerings were not brought into the house of Jehovah; it was the priests'.
At that time Hazael the king of Syria went up and fought against Gath and took it. And Hazael set his face to go up toward Jerusalem.
And Jehoash the king of Judah took all the sanctified things which Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers the kings of Judah, had sanctified and his own sanctified things and all the gold that was found in the treasuries of the house of Jehovah and the house of the king; and he sent it to Hazael the king of Syria. And he went up from Jerusalem.
And the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And his servants rose up and formed a conspiracy. And they struck Joash down in the house of Millo, on the way that leads down to Silla.
And it was Jozacar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, who struck him down; and he died. And they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Amaziah his son reigned in his place.