In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam the king of Israel, Azariah the son of Amaziah, the king of Judah, began to reign.
He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
And Jehovah struck the king, so that he was a leper until the day of his death; and he dwelt in a separate house. And Jotham, the king's son, was over the household, judging the people of the land.
And the rest of the acts of Azariah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Jotham his son reigned in his place.
In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned six months.
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as his fathers had done; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin.
And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him down before the people. So he killed him and reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Zechariah are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
This was the word of Jehovah which He spoke to Jehu, saying, Your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel; and it was so.
Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah the king of Judah, and he reigned one month in Samaria.
And Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria. And he struck down Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and killed him. And he reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Shallum and the conspiracy which he formed are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Then Menahem struck Tiphsah and all who were in it and its borders from Tirzah; because they did not open to him, he struck it; all its pregnant women he ripped open.
In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel; he reigned ten years in Samaria.
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin, throughout all his days.
Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver so that he would support his efforts to keep the kingdom in his hand.
And Menahem exacted the money from Israel, from all the great men of wealth, each one man giving fifty shekels of silver, so that he could give it to the king of Assyria. And the king of Assyria returned and did not stay there in the land.
And the rest of the acts of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
And Menahem slept with his fathers. And Pekahiah his son reigned in his place.
In the fiftieth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned two years.
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin.
And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him. And he struck him down, along with Argob and Arieh, in Samaria in the citadel of the king's house; and with him were fifty men from among the Gileadites. So he killed him and reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah and all that he did are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
In the fifty-second year of Azariah the king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria; he reigned twenty years.
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, by which he caused Israel to sin.
In the days of Pekah the king of Israel Tiglath-pileser the king of Assyria came and took Ijon and Abel-beth-maacah and Janoah and Kedesh and Hazor and Gilead and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali; and he carried them away captive to Assyria.
And Hoshea the son of Elah formed a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and he struck him down and killed him and reigned in his place in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
And the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did are there written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah, began to reign.
He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.
And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
However the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah.
And the rest of the acts of Jotham that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
In those days Jehovah began to send Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah.
And Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Ahaz his son reigned in his place.