And when King Hezekiah heard, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of Jehovah.
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, who had covered themselves with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz.
And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of affliction and rebuke and contempt, for children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
It may be that Jehovah your God will hear all the words of the Rab-shakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which Jehovah your God has heard. Therefore lift up a prayer for the remnant which is left.
So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
And Isaiah said to them, Thus shall you say to your master, Thus says Jehovah, Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me.
Indeed, I will put a spirit in him, so that he will hear a report and return to his land. And I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
And the Rab-shakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, because he had heard that the king had departed from Lachish.
And he heard a report about Tirhakah the king of Ethiopia, which said, He has now come forth to make war with you. And he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying,
Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah the king of Judah, saying, Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, Jerusalem will not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Indeed, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, destroying them utterly. And will you be delivered?
Have the gods of the nations whom my fathers have destroyed delivered them: Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the children of Eden, who were in Telassar?
Where are the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena and Ivvah?
And Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and Hezekiah went up to the house of Jehovah and spread it before Jehovah.
And Hezekiah prayed before Jehovah and said, O Jehovah, God of Israel, You who are enthroned between the cherubim, You alone are the God of all the kingdoms of the earth; You made the heavens and the earth.
Incline Your ear, O Jehovah, and hear; open Your eyes, O Jehovah, and see; and listen to the words of Sennacherib, who has sent him to reproach the living God.
Truly, O Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands,
And have cast their gods into the fire, because they were not gods but the work of men's hands, wood and stone; so they destroyed them.
And now, O Jehovah our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You alone, O Jehovah, are God.
Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent a message to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Because you have prayed to Me concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard.
This is the word which Jehovah has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion / Has despised you and laughed at you; / The daughter of Jerusalem / Has shaken her head behind you.
Whom have you reproached and reviled? / Against whom have you lifted up your voice / And lifted up your eyes haughtily? / Against the Holy One of Israel.
By your messengers you have reproached the Lord, / And you have said, In the multitude of my chariots / I have come up to the height of the mountains, / To the sides of Lebanon; / And I will cut down its tall cedars, / And the choicest of its cypresses; / And I will enter into its farthest lodging place, / And its luxuriant forest.
I have dug / And have drunk foreign waters, / And with the sole of my feet I will dry up / All the rivers of Egypt.
Have you not heard / That long ago I did it / And that from the days of old I had formed it? / Now I have brought it to pass, / That you should destroy fortified cities / And make them into ruinous heaps.
Therefore their inhabitants were short of strength; / They were dismayed and felt ashamed; / They were like vegetation of the field / And green shoots of tender grass, / Like grass which grows on the housetops / And is scorched before it has grown up.
But I know your sitting down, / And your going out and your coming in, / And your raging against Me.
Because your raging against Me / And your arrogance have come up into My ears, / I will put My hook in your nose, / And My bridle in your lips; / And I will turn you back on the way by which you came.
And this shall be the sign to you: This year you shall eat that which grows up of itself, and in the second year that which shoots up from the same, and in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
And the remnant of those who have escaped of the house of Judah will again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
For a remnant will go forth out of Jerusalem, and from Mount Zion those who have escaped. The zeal of Jehovah of hosts will perform this.
Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come to this city, / Nor shoot an arrow there; / Neither shall he come against it with a shield / And build up a mound against it.
By the way on which he came, / By the same shall he return, / And into this city he shall not come, / Declares Jehovah.
And around this city I will put an enclosure, / To save it, / For My own sake, / And for the sake of David, My servant.
And that night an angel of Jehovah went out and struck the Assyrians' camp, a hundred and eighty-five thousand; and when they rose up early in the morning, all of them were corpses, dead.
Then Sennacherib the king of Assyria departed and went back to dwell in Nineveh.
And as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him down with the sword; and they escaped to the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.