Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Hephzibah.
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, like the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah had dispossessed before the children of Israel.
And he rebuilt the high places that Hezekiah his father had destroyed, and he raised up altars to Baal and made an Asherah, as Ahab the king of Israel had done; and he worshipped all the host of heaven and served them.
And he built altars in the house of Jehovah, concerning which Jehovah had said, In Jerusalem will I put My name.
And he built altars to all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Jehovah.
And he caused his son to pass through fire and practiced soothsaying and enchantments, and appointed mediums and spiritists; he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah beyond measure, provoking Him to anger.
And he put the engraved image of the Asherah that he had made in that house concerning which Jehovah had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever;
And I will no longer cause the foot of Israel to wander away from the land that I gave their fathers, if only they will be certain to act according to all that I have commanded them and according to all the law that My servant Moses commanded them.
But they would not listen, and Manasseh led them astray to do more evil than the nations which Jehovah had destroyed before the children of Israel.
And Jehovah spoke through His servants the prophets, saying,
Because Manasseh the king of Judah has done these abominations and has done more evil than all that the Amorites did, who were before him, and has caused Judah also to sin with his idols;
Therefore thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, I am now bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah that both ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle.
And over Jerusalem I will stretch the line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a pan, wiping it and turning it upside down.
And I will forsake the remnant of My inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies, and they will become plunder and spoil to all their enemies;
Because they have done what is evil in My sight and have provoked Me to anger since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt even to this day.
And Manasseh also shed very much innocent blood, until he filled Jerusalem with it from one end to another, besides his sin by which he caused Judah to sin, doing what was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did and his sin which he committed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son reigned in his place.
Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
And he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as Manasseh his father had done.
And he walked in all the way that his father had walked, and he served the idols that his father had served and worshipped them;
And he forsook Jehovah, the God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of Jehovah.
And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and they killed the king in his own house.
But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon. And the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Amon that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And he was buried in his grave in the garden of Uzza. And Josiah his son reigned in his place.