Now Naaman, the captain of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man in the sight of his master and highly respected, because by him Jehovah had given deliverance to Syria. But the man, though a mighty man of valor, was a leper.
And the Syrians had gone out in bands and had taken captive a little girl from the land of Israel, and she waited on Naaman's wife.
And she said to her mistress, If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria! Then he would cure him of his leprosy.
And Naaman went in and told his master, saying, Thus and thus did the girl who is from the land of Israel say.
Then the king of Syria said, Go then, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. And he went and took with him ten talents of silver and six thousand shekels of gold and ten changes of clothes.
And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which read: And now, when this letter comes to you, I am sending Naaman my servant to you, that you may cure him of his leprosy.
And when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, Am I God to put to death and to give life, that this man sends word to me to cure a man of his leprosy? Therefore consider now and see how he seeks an occasion against me.
And when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent word to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes? Let him come to me, and he will know that there is a prophet in Israel.
And Naaman came with his horses and his chariot and stood at the entrance of the house of Elisha.
And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored; and you shall be clean.
But Naaman became furious and went away and said, I thought, He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of Jehovah his God, and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper.
Are not the Abana and the Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage.
And his servants came near and spoke to him and said, My father, had the prophet told you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much more then, when he says to you, Wash and be clean?
So he went down and dipped in the Jordan seven times according to the word of the man of God. And his flesh was restored to be like the flesh of a little boy, and he was clean.
And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and came and stood before him and said, Now I know that there is no God in all the earth except with Israel. And now, please accept a present from your servant.
But he said, As Jehovah lives, before whom I stand, I will receive nothing. And Naaman urged him to take it, but he refused.
And Naaman said, Then if not, please let your servant be given two mule-loads of earth, for your servant will no more offer burnt offerings and sacrifices to other gods, but to Jehovah only.
In this matter may Jehovah pardon your servant: When my master goes into the house of Rimmon to bow down there and leans on my arm, and I bow down in the house of Rimmon, when I bow down in the house of Rimmon, may Jehovah pardon your servant in this matter.
And he said to him, Go in peace. And when he had gone from him a little way,
Gehazi, the attendant of Elisha the man of God said, Now my master has spared Naaman this Syrian by not receiving from his hand that which he brought. As Jehovah lives, I will run after him and take something from him.
So Gehazi pursued Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running after him, he alighted from the chariot to meet him and said, Is all well?
And he said, All is well. My master has sent me, saying, Now at this moment two young men from among the sons of the prophets have come to me from the hill country of Ephraim; please give them a talent of silver and two changes of clothes.
And Naaman said, Please take two talents. And he urged him and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of clothes, and gave them to two of his attendants; and they carried them before him.
And when he came to the hill, he took them from their hand and deposited them in the house. And he sent the men away, and they departed.
And he went in and stood before his master. And Elisha said to him, Where have you come from, Gehazi? And he said, Your servant has not gone anywhere.
And he said to him, Did not my heart go with you when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Is it a time to receive silver and to receive clothing and olive groves and vineyards and sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants?
Therefore the leprosy of Naaman shall cleave to you and to your seed forever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.