Now Elisha had spoken to the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying, Rise up, and you and your household go and dwell wherever you can; for Jehovah has called for a famine, and it will also come upon the land for seven years.
So the woman rose up and did according to the word of the man of God. And she and her household went and dwelt in the land of the Philistines for seven years.
And at the end of the seven years the woman returned from the land of the Philistines. And she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and her land.
And the king was talking to Gehazi the attendant of the man of God, saying, Recount to me all the great things that Elisha has done.
And while Gehazi was telling the king how Elisha had restored the dead boy to life, there came the woman whose son he had restored to life, crying to the king for her house and her land. And Gehazi said, O my lord the king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life.
And the king asked the woman, and she recounted it to him. And the king appointed a certain officer for her, saying, Restore all that was hers and all the produce of her land from the day that she left the country until now.
And Elisha went to Damascus. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick. And it was told him, saying, The man of God has come here.
And the king said to Hazael, Take a gift with you, and go to meet the man of God; and inquire of Jehovah through him, saying, Will I recover from this sickness?
So Hazael went to meet him; and he took a gift with him, even all good things of Damascus, forty camel loads. And he came and stood before him and said, Your son Ben-hadad the king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, Will I recover from this sickness?
And Elisha said to him, Go and say to him, You shall certainly recover; however Jehovah has shown me that he shall certainly die.
And he fixed his gaze and stared at him until he was ashamed. Then the man of God began to weep.
And Hazael said, Why are you weeping, my lord? And he said, Because I know the evil that you will do to the children of Israel: Their strongholds you will set on fire, and their choice young men you will slay with the sword, and their little ones you will dash to pieces, and their pregnant women you will rip open.
And Hazael said, But what is your servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing? And Elisha said, Jehovah has shown me that you will be king over Syria.
And he went from Elisha and came to his master. And his master said to him, What did Elisha say to you? And he said, He told me that you shall certainly recover.
But on the next day he took the heavy covering over Ben-hadad and dipped it in water and spread it over his face, so that he died; and Hazael reigned in his place.
Now in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, while Jehoshaphat was king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, began to reign.
He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel and as the house of Ahab had done, for Ahab's daughter was his wife; and he did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
But Jehovah would not destroy Judah, because of David His servant, as He had promised him that for his sake He would provide a lamp for his children always.
In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and they installed a king over themselves.
So Joram crossed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him. And he rose up at night and struck the Edomites all around him and the captains of the chariots, but his people fled to their tents.
So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, as it is to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time.
And the rest of the acts of Joram and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, began to reign.
Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri the king of Israel.
And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, like the house of Ahab; for he was a son-in-law to the house of Ahab.
And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to fight with Hazael the king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians struck Joram.
And Joram the king returned to heal in Jezreel of his wounds that the Syrians had inflicted on him in Ramah when he fought with Hazael the king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he was sick.