Now Joshua was old and advanced in age; and Jehovah said to him, You are old and advanced in age, and very much of the land remains to be possessed.
This is the land that remains: all the regions of the Philistines and all that of the Geshurites,
From the Shihor, which is before Egypt, unto the border of Ekron on the north (this is considered to be Canaanite), with five lords of the Philistines: the Gazite and the Ashdodite, the Ashkelonite, the Gittite, and the Ekronite; and that of the Avvim
In the south; all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah, which belongs to the Sidonians, unto Aphek at the border of the Amorites;
And the land of the Gebalites and all Lebanon toward the rising of the sun, from Baal-gad under Mount Hermon to the entrance of Hamath;
All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon to Misrephoth-maim, all the Sidonians. I Myself will drive them out before the children of Israel; nevertheless allot it to Israel as an inheritance as I have commanded you.
And now divide this land as an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half-tribe of Manasseh.
With the other half-tribe of Manasseh the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance, which Moses gave to them across the Jordan on the east, as Moses the servant of Jehovah gave to them:
From Aroer, which is on the edge of the river Arnon, and from the city, which is in the middle of the river valley, and all the tableland from Medeba to Dibon;
And all the cities of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, unto the border of the children of Ammon;
And Gilead with the territory of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and all Mount Hermon and all Bashan unto Salecah;
All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei (he was left of the remnant of the Rephaim); and Moses struck them and dispossessed them.
Yet the children of Israel did not dispossess the Geshurites and the Maacathites, but Geshur and Maacath dwell in the midst of Israel to this day.
However to the tribe of Levi he did not give an inheritance; the offerings of Jehovah the God of Israel by fire are their inheritance, as He had spoken to him.
And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their families.
And for them the border was from Aroer, which is on the edge of the river Arnon, and from the city, which is in the middle of the river valley, and all the tableland by Medeba;
Heshbon and all its cities which are in the tableland: Dibon and Bamoth-baal and Beth-baal-meon
And Jahaz and Kedemoth and Mephaath
And Kiriathaim and Sibmah and Zereth-shahar on the mountain of the valley
And Beth-peor and the slopes of Pisgah and Beth-jeshimoth;
That is, all the cities of the tableland and all the kingdom of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon and whom Moses struck with the leaders of Midian: Evi and Rekem and Zur and Hur and Reba, the princes of Sihon who inhabited the land.
And Balaam the son of Beor, who practiced divination, the children of Israel slew with the sword with those of them who were already slain.
And the border of the children of Reuben was the Jordan and its border. This is the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, the cities with their villages.
And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, to the children of Gad, according to their families.
And for them the border was Jazer and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon to Aroer, which is before Rabbah;
And from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh and Betonim; and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir;
And in the valley Beth-haram and Beth-nimrah and Succoth and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon the king of Heshbon; the Jordan and its border to the end of the Sea of Chinnereth, across the Jordan on the east.
This is the inheritance of the children of Gad according to their families, the cities with their villages.
And Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh; and it was for the half-tribe of the children of Manasseh according to their families.
And their border was from Mahanaim and all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og the king of Bashan, and all the tent villages of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities;
And half of Gilead, and Ashtaroth and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were for the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, for half of the children of Machir, according to their families.
These are what Moses gave as inheritances in the plains of Moab across the Jordan at Jericho to the east.
But to the tribe of Levi Moses did not give an inheritance; Jehovah the God of Israel is their inheritance, as He had spoken to them.