And the lot for the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families was unto the border of Edom, to the wilderness of Zin at the south; this was the southern extreme.
And their southern border was from the end of the Salt Sea, from the tongue-shaped bay that faces south;
And it went southward to the ascent of Akrabbim, and passed on to Zin, and went up south of Kadesh-barnea, and passed on to Hezron, and went up to Addar, and went around Karka,
And passed on to Azmon, and went out to the brook of Egypt; and the end of the border was at the sea. This shall be your southern border.
And the eastern border was the Salt Sea to the end of the Jordan. And the border on the northern side was from the bay of the sea at the end of the Jordan.
And the border went up to Beth-hoglah, and passed on to the north of Beth-arabah; and the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben;
And the border went up to Debir from the Valley of Achor, and turned northward toward Gilgal, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, which is south of the river valley; and the border passed on to the waters of En-shemesh; and its end was at En-rogel;
Then the border went up by the Valley of Ben-hinnom to the south of the Jebusite slope (this is Jerusalem); and the border went to the top of the mountain that is before the Valley of Hinnom on the west, which is the northern end of the Valley of Rephaim;
And the border turned from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah and went to the cities of Mount Ephron; then the border turned toward Baalah (this is Kiriath-jearim);
And the border went around west of Baalah to Mount Seir, and passed by the northern slope of Mount Jearim (this is Chesalon), and went down to Beth-shemesh, and passed on to Timnah;
And the border went to the slope of Ekron northward; and the border turned toward Shikkeron, and passed by Mount Baalah, and went to Jabneel; and the end of the border was at the sea.
And the western border was the Great Sea and its coast. This is the border of the children of Judah all around according to their families.
And to Caleb the son of Jephunneh he gave a portion in the midst of the children of Judah according to the commandment of Jehovah to Joshua, that is, Kiriath-arba (Arba was the father of Anak); this is Hebron.
And Caleb drove out the three sons of Anak from there: Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai, the children of Anak.
And he went up from there to the inhabitants of Debir. (Now the name of Debir was formerly Kiriath-sepher.)
And Caleb said, Whoever strikes Kiriath-sepher and takes it, I will give to him Achsah my daughter as wife.
Then Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And when she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she alighted from her donkey, and Caleb said to her, What do you want?
And she said, Give me a blessing, for you have given me land in the Negev; give me also springs of water. So he gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families.
And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Judah toward the border of Edom on the south were Kabzeel and Eder and Jagur
And Kinah and Dimonah and Adadah
And Kedesh and Hazor and Ithnan;
Ziph and Telem and Bealoth
And Hazor-hadattah and Kerioth-hezron (this is Hazor);
Amam and Shema and Moladah
And Hazar-gaddah and Heshmon and Beth-pelet
And Hazar-shual and Beer-sheba and Biziothiah;
Baalah and Iim and Ezem
And Eltolad and Chesil and Hormah
And Ziklag and Madmannah and Sansannah
And Lebaoth and Shilhim and Ain and Rimmon: in all twenty-nine cities with their villages.
In the lowland: Eshtaol and Zorah and Ashnah
And Zanoah and En-gannim; Tappuah and Enam;
Jarmuth and Adullam; Socoh and Azekah
And Shaaraim and Adithaim and Gederah and Gederothaim: fourteen cities with their villages.
Zenan and Hadashah and Migdal-gad
And Dilean and Mizpeh and Joktheel;
Lachish and Bozkath and Eglon
And Cabbon and Lahmas and Chitlish
And Gederoth; Beth-dagon and Naamah and Makkedah: sixteen cities with their villages.
Libnah and Ether and Ashan
And Iphtah and Ashnah and Nezib
And Keilah and Achzib and Mareshah: nine cities with their villages.
Ekron, with its towns and its villages;
From Ekron even to the sea, all that were near Ashdod, with their villages.
Ashdod, with its towns and its villages; Gaza, with its towns and its villages, unto the brook of Egypt and the Great Sea and its border.
And in the hill country: Shamir and Jattir and Socoh
And Dannah and Kiriath-sannah (this is Debir)
And Anab and Eshtemoh and Anim
And Goshen and Holon and Giloh: eleven cities with their villages.
Arab and Dumah and Eshan
And Janum and Beth-tappuah and Aphekah
And Humtah and Kiriath-arba (this is Hebron) and Zior: nine cities with their villages.
Maon, Carmel, and Ziph; and Juttah
And Jezreel and Jokdeam and Zanoah;
Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah: ten cities with their villages.
Halhul, Beth-zur, and Gedor;
And Maarath and Beth-anoth and Eltekon: six cities with their villages.
Kiriath-baal (this is Kiriath-jearim) and Rabbah: two cities with their villages.
In the wilderness: Beth-arabah, Middin, and Secacah;
And Nibshan and the City of Salt and En-gedi: six cities with their villages.
But as for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the children of Judah could not dispossess them; thus the Jebusites dwell with the children of Judah in Jerusalem to this day.