And the whole assembly of the children of Israel gathered together at Shiloh, and they set up the Tent of Meeting there; and the land was subdued before them.
And among the children of Israel there remained seven tribes whose inheritance had not been divided to them.
And Joshua said to the children of Israel, How long will you be slack about going to take possession of the land that Jehovah, the God of your fathers, has given you?
Appoint three men for each tribe, and I will send them out. And they shall rise up and go through the land, and write a description of it with a view to its being their inheritance; and they shall come to me.
And they shall divide it into seven portions: Judah shall stay at his border on the south, and the house of Joseph shall stay at their border on the north.
And you shall describe the land in seven portions and bring the description here to me; then I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah our God.
But the Levites shall have no portion among you, for the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance. And Gad and Reuben and the half-tribe of Manasseh received their inheritance across the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of Jehovah had given to them.
And the men rose up and went; and Joshua commanded those who went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it; then return to me, and I will cast lots for you before Jehovah here in Shiloh.
So the men went, and they passed through the land and described it by cities into seven portions in a book. Then they came to Joshua at the camp at Shiloh.
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Jehovah. And there Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.
And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came out, according to their families. And the border of their lot went between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph.
And their border on the northern side was from the Jordan, and the border went up alongside Jericho on the north, and went up through the hill country westward, and its end was at the wilderness of Beth-aven.
And from there the border passed to Luz, on the southern side of Luz (this is Bethel); and the border went down to Ataroth-addar, at the mountain which is south of Lower Beth-horon.
And the border turned from there and went around the west side southward, from the mountain that is to the south of Beth-horon; and its end was at Kiriath-baal (this is Kiriath-jearim), a city of the children of Judah. This was the west side.
The south side was from the limit of Kiriath-jearim, and the border went from the west and went to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah;
And the border went down to the limit of the mountain that is before the Valley of Ben-hinnom, which is north of the valley of the Rephaim; and it went down into the Valley of Hinnom, to the southern side of the Jebusite slope, and went down to En-rogel,
And turned north, and went to En-shemesh, and went to Geliloth, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim; and it went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben;
And it passed by the side before the Arabah northward, and went down to the Arabah;
And the border passed by the northern side of Beth-hoglah, and the end of the border was at the northern bay of the Salt Sea at the south end of the Jordan. This was the southern border.
And the Jordan borders it on the east side. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families, according to its borders all around.
And the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho and Beth-hoglah and Emek-keziz
And Beth-arabah and Zemaraim and Bethel
And Avvim and Parah and Ophrah
And Chephar-ammoni and Ophni and Geba: twelve cities with their villages.
Gibeon and Ramah and Beeroth
And Mizpeh and Chephirah and Mozah
And Rekem and Irpeel and Taralah
And Zelah, Haeleph, and that of the Jebusite (this is Jerusalem), Gibeath, Kiriath: fourteen cities with their villages. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.