Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten of God, and everyone who loves Him who has begotten loves him also who has been begotten of Him.
In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments.
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome.
For everything that has been begotten of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory which has overcome the world--our faith.
And who is he who overcomes the world except him who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is He who came through water and blood{}, Jesus Christ; not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood; and the Spirit is He who testifies, because the Spirit is the reality.
For there are three who testify,
The Spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are unto the one thing.
If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, because this is the testimony of God that He has testified concerning His Son.
He who believes into the Son of God has the testimony in himself; he who does not believe God has made Him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony which God has testified concerning His Son.
And this is the testimony, that God gave to us eternal life and this life is in His Son.
He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
I have written these things to you that you may know that you have eternal life, to you who believe into the name of the Son of God.
And this is the boldness which we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him.
If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask and he will give life to him, to those sinning not unto death. There is a sin unto death; I do not say that he should make request concerning that.
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not unto death.
We know that everyone who is begotten of God does not sin, but he who has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the evil one.
And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we might know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
Little children, guard yourselves from idols.