Then Job answered Jehovah and said,
I know that You can do all things / And that no purpose of Yours can be restrained.
Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge? / Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, / Things too wonderful for me, which I did not know.
Hear now, and I will speak; / I will ask of You, and You shall inform me.
I had heard of You by the hearing of the ear, / But now my eye has seen You;
Therefore I abhor myself, and I repent / In dust and ashes.
And after Jehovah had spoken these words to Job, Jehovah said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My anger is kindled against you and against your two friends, for you have not spoken concerning Me that which is right, as My servant Job has.
Now therefore take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and go to My servant Job, and offer up a burnt offering for yourselves. And My servant Job will pray for you; for I will accept him, so that I do not deal with you according to your folly; for you have not spoken concerning Me that which is right, as My servant Job has.
So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as Jehovah told them; and Jehovah accepted Job.
And Jehovah turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends, and Jehovah gave Job twice as much as he had before.
And all his brothers and all his sisters and all his previous acquaintances came to him and ate bread with him in his house. And they consoled and comforted him for all the misfortune that Jehovah had brought upon him. And each gave to him a piece of money, and each, a gold ring.
Thus Jehovah blessed Job's latter end more than his beginning; and he had fourteen thousand sheep and six thousand camels and a thousand yoke of oxen and a thousand female donkeys.
And he had seven sons and three daughters.
And he named the first Jemimah, and the second Keziah, and the third Keren-happuch.
And in all the land no women were found as beautiful as the daughters of Job. And their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers.
And after this, Job lived a hundred and forty years; and he saw his children and his grandchildren, even four generations.
And Job died, old and full of days.