Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me, and there He was, forming locusts in the beginning of the springing up of the spring crop; and it was the spring crop after the king's mowings.
And when their eating of the herbage of the land was complete, I said, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I beseech You! How will Jacob stand, for he is small?
Jehovah repented concerning this: It shall not be, says Jehovah.
Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me, and there the Lord Jehovah was, calling to contend with them with fire; and it devoured the great deep, and it devoured the land.
Then I said, O Lord Jehovah, Stop, I beseech You! How will Jacob stand, for he is small?
Jehovah repented concerning this: This also shall not be, says the Lord Jehovah.
Thus He showed me, and there the Lord was, standing upon a perfectly plumbed wall; and in His hand was a plumb line.
And Jehovah said to me, What do you see, Amos? And I said, A plumb line. And the Lord said, I am now setting a plumb line in the midst of My people Israel; I will not pass them by anymore.
And the high places of Isaac will be desolated, / And the sanctuaries of Israel will be made waste; / And I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with a sword.
Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent word to Jeroboam the king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel; the land is not able to endure all his words.
For thus says Amos, By the sword Jeroboam will die, and Israel will surely go into captivity out from its land.
Then Amaziah said to Amos, Go, you seer; flee into the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there;
But in Bethel you shall not ever prophesy again, for it is the king's sanctuary and it is the royal residence.
Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I am no prophet, nor am I the son of a prophet; rather I am a herdsman and a dresser of sycamores.
And Jehovah took me from following the flock, and Jehovah said to me, Go, prophesy to My people Israel.
And now hear the word of Jehovah: You say, You shall not prophesy against Israel, nor shall you speak against the house of Isaac.
Therefore thus says Jehovah, Your wife will go about as a harlot in the city, / And your sons and your daughters will fall by the sword, / And your land will be divided by the line, / And you yourself will die in a land that is unclean; / And Israel will indeed go into captivity / Out from its land.