Then Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the Tent of Meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Take the sum of all the assembly of the children of Israel, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, every male, head by head.
From twenty years old and upward, all who are able to go forth for military service in Israel, you and Aaron shall number them by their companies.
And with you there shall be a man from every tribe, each man the head of his fathers' household.
And these are the names of the men who shall stand with you. From Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur.
From Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
From Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
From Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar.
From Zebulun: Eliab the son of Helon.
From the children of Joseph: from Ephraim: Elishama the son of Ammihud; from Manasseh: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
From Benjamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni.
From Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
From Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran.
From Gad: Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
From Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan.
These are the ones who were called from the assembly, the leaders of the tribes of their fathers; they were the heads of the thousands of Israel.
And Moses and Aaron took these men who had been designated by name.
And on the first day of the second month they gathered all the assembly together; and they registered themselves by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names from twenty years old and upward, head by head.
As Jehovah commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.
And the children of Reuben, Israel's firstborn, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Reuben: forty-six thousand five hundred.
From the children of Simeon, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, those who were numbered of them, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Simeon: fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
From the children of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Gad: forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
From the children of Judah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Judah: seventy-four thousand six hundred.
From the children of Issachar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Issachar: fifty-four thousand four hundred.
From the children of Zebulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Zebulun: fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
From the children of Joseph: from the children of Ephraim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, from the tribe of Ephraim: forty thousand five hundred.
And from the children of Manasseh, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Manasseh: thirty-two thousand two hundred.
From the children of Benjamin, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Benjamin: thirty-five thousand four hundred.
From the children of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Dan: sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
From the children of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Asher: forty-one thousand five hundred.
From the children of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service,
Those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Naphtali: fifty-three thousand four hundred.
These were the ones who were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron numbered, with the leaders of Israel, twelve men, each one for his fathers' household.
So all who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers' households, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth for military service in Israel,
Even all the numbered men were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among them by their fathers' tribe.
For Jehovah had spoken to Moses, saying,
Only the tribe of Levi you shall not number, nor shall you take the sum of them among the children of Israel;
But you, appoint the Levites over the Tabernacle of the Testimony and over all its furnishings and over all that belongs to it. They shall carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings; and they shall minister to it and shall encamp around the tabernacle.
And when the tabernacle sets out, the Levites shall take it down; and when the tabernacle encamps, the Levites shall set it up. But the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
And the children of Israel shall encamp, each one by his own camp and each one by his own standard, according to their companies.
But the Levites shall encamp around the Tabernacle of the Testimony, that there be no wrath upon the assembly of the children of Israel. And the Levites shall keep the charge of the Tabernacle of the Testimony.
Thus did the children of Israel do; according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses, so they did.