Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Make yourself two trumpets of silver; of beaten work you shall make them; and you shall use them for summoning the assembly and for the setting out of the camps.
And when they blow them, all the assembly shall gather themselves to you at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
But if they blow only one, then the leaders, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves to you.
And when you blow an alarm, the camps that are encamped on the east side shall set out.
And when you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that are encamped on the south side shall set out. They shall blow an alarm for them to set out.
But when the congregation is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; and this shall be for you a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
And when you go to war in your land against the adversary who oppresses you, then you shall sound an alarm with the trumpets, so that you may be remembered before Jehovah your God and be saved from your enemies.
Also on your days of rejoicing and at your appointed feasts and at the beginnings of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; and they shall be a reminder on your behalf before your God; I am Jehovah your God.
Now it was in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken up from over the Tabernacle of the Testimony.
And the children of Israel set out on their journeys from the wilderness of Sinai. Then the cloud settled down in the wilderness of Paran.
And they set out for the first time according to the commandment of Jehovah through Moses.
And the standard of the camp of the children of Judah set out first according to their companies; and over the entire company was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who carried the tabernacle, set out.
And the standard of the camp of Reuben set out according to their companies; and over the entire company was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
And the Kohathites, who carried the holy things, set out; and the tabernacle was set up before their arrival.
And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set out according to their companies; and over the entire company was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan, which was the rear guard of all the camps, set out according to their companies; and over the entire company was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran.
And over the company of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
This was the order in which the children of Israel set out according to their companies, when they set out.
And Moses said to Hobab the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law, We are setting out to the place concerning which Jehovah said, I will give it to you. Come with us, and we will treat you well, for Jehovah has promised good to Israel.
But he said to him, I will not go; but rather I will go to my own land and to my relatives.
So Moses said, Please do not leave us, for you know where we can encamp in the wilderness, and you will be eyes for us.
And if you go with us, whatever good Jehovah does for us, we will do for you.
So they set out from the mountain of Jehovah three days' journey, with the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah setting out before them three days' journey, to seek out a resting place for them.
And the cloud of Jehovah was over them by day when they set out from the camp.
And when the Ark set out, Moses said, Rise up, O Jehovah, and let Your enemies be scattered; / And let those who hate You flee before You.
And when it came to rest, he said, Return, O Jehovah, to the ten thousand thousands of Israel.