Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Send men to spy out the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the children of Israel; one man from each of their fathers' tribes you shall send, every one a leader among them.
So Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the commandment of Jehovah, all of them leading men among the children of Israel.
And these were their names: from the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur;
From the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
From the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
From the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
From the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun;
From the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
From the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;
From the tribe of Joseph, that is, from the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi;
From the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;
From the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
From the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
From the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun Joshua.
And when Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, he said to them, Go up this way into the Negev, and go up into the hill country;
And see what the land is like; and whether the people who live in it are strong or weak, whether they are few or many;
And whether the land in which they dwell is good or bad; and whether the cities that they live in are like camps or with fortifications;
And whether the land is fat or lean; whether there are trees in it or not. Therefore strengthen yourselves and bring some of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first ripe grapes.
So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, near the entrance of Hamath.
And when they had gone up through the Negev, they came to Hebron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the descendants of Anak, were there. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)
Then they came to the Valley of Eshcol, and from there they cut down a branch with a single cluster of grapes; and they carried it on a pole between two of them. They also cut off some of the pomegranates and some of the figs.
That place was called the Valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the children of Israel cut down from there.
And they returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days.
And they proceeded to come to Moses and to Aaron and to the whole assembly of the children of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and they brought back word to them and to the whole assembly, and showed them the fruit of the land.
And they told him and said, We came to the land into which you sent us; and it indeed flows with milk and honey, and this is its fruit.
However, the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large; and we also saw the descendants of Anak there.
The Amalekites dwell in the land of the Negev, and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Amorites dwell in the hill country, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea and along the Jordan.
But Caleb quieted the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.
But the men who went up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we.
And they brought to the children of Israel an evil report of the land which they had spied out, saying, The land, through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that eats up its inhabitants; and all the people that we saw in it are men of great size.
And there we saw the Nephilim (the descendants of Anak are part of the Nephilim); and we were like grasshoppers in our own sight, and so we were in their sight.