Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that you are to inhabit, which I am giving you,
And you make an offering by fire to Jehovah, a burnt offering or a sacrifice, to make a special vow or as a freewill offering or at your appointed feasts, to make a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah, from the herd or from the flock,
The one who presents his offering shall present to Jehovah a meal offering of a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a fourth of a hin of oil.
And you shall prepare wine for the drink offering, a fourth of a hin, with the burnt offering or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.
Or for a ram you shall prepare as a meal offering two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a third of a hin of oil;
And for the drink offering you shall present a third of a hin of wine, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
And when you prepare a herd animal for a burnt offering or for a sacrifice, to make a special vow or for peace offerings to Jehovah,
Then you shall offer with the herd animal a meal offering of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with half a hin of oil;
And you shall present for the drink offering half a hin of wine, an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
Thus shall it be done for each ox or for each ram or for each of the male lambs or goats.
According to the number that you prepare, so you shall do for every one according to their number.
All who are native shall do these things in this way, in presenting an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
And if a stranger sojourns with you, or one who may be among you throughout your generations, and he wants to make an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah; just as you do, so he shall do.
For the congregation there shall be one statute for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you, a perpetual statute throughout your generations; as you are, so shall the sojourner be before Jehovah.
One law and one ordinance shall be for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land into which I am bringing you,
Whenever you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a heave offering to Jehovah.
From the first of your dough you shall offer up a cake for a heave offering; as the heave offering of the threshing floor, so shall you offer it up.
From the first of your dough you shall give to Jehovah a heave offering throughout your generations.
And if you sin unintentionally and do not observe all these commandments which Jehovah has spoken to Moses,
That is, everything that Jehovah has commanded you through Moses, from the day that Jehovah gave commandment and onward throughout your generations,
Then, if it was done unintentionally, without the knowledge of the assembly, the whole assembly shall offer one bull of the herd for a burnt offering, for a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah, with its meal offering and its drink offering, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a sin offering.
And the priest shall make expiation for the whole assembly of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was unintentional, and they have brought their offering, an offering by fire to Jehovah, and their sin offering before Jehovah for their error.
And the whole assembly of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who sojourns among them; for all the people were involved unintentionally.
And if one person sins unintentionally, then he shall present a female goat a year old for a sin offering.
And the priest shall make expiation before Jehovah for the person who sinned unintentionally, when he sins unintentionally, to make expiation for him; and he shall be forgiven.
You shall have one law for the one who does anything unintentionally, for one who is a native among the children of Israel and for the stranger who sojourns among them.
But the person who does anything with a high hand, whether a native or a sojourner, that one reviles Jehovah; and that person shall be cut off from among his people.
Because he has despised the word of Jehovah and has broken His commandment, that person shall be completely cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.
Now while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.
And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to the whole assembly.
And they put him in custody, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.
And Jehovah said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death; the whole assembly shall stone him with stones outside the camp.
So the whole assembly brought him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel and tell them to make for themselves fringes on the borders of their garments throughout their generations and to put on the fringe of each border a cord of blue.
And it shall be a fringe for you, so that when you see it you will remember all the commandments of Jehovah and do them, so that you do not seek after your own heart and your own eyes, according to which you committed fornication;
That you shall remember and do all My commandments and be holy to your God.
I am Jehovah your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God; I am Jehovah your God.