Then Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
The children of Israel shall encamp each by his own standard with the ensigns of their fathers' households; they shall encamp facing the Tent of Meeting on every side.
And those who encamp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their companies; and the leader of the children of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: seventy-four thousand six hundred.
And those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar; and the leader of the children of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: fifty-four thousand four hundred.
Then the tribe of Zebulun; and the leader of the children of Zebulun: Eliab the son of Helon;
And his company, that is, his numbered men: fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Judah: one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their companies. They shall set out first.
On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their companies; and the leader of the children of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur;
And his company, that is, his numbered men: forty-six thousand five hundred.
And those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon; and the leader of the children of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
Then the tribe of Gad; and the leader of the children of Gad: Eliasaph the son of Reuel;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
All who were numbered of the camp of Reuben: one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred fifty, according to their companies. And they shall set out second.
Then the Tent of Meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps; as they encamp, so shall they set out, every man in his place, by their standards.
On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their companies; and the leader of the children of Ephraim: Elishama the son of Ammihud;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: forty thousand five hundred.
And next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh; and the leader of the children of Manasseh: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: thirty-two thousand two hundred.
Then the tribe of Benjamin; and the leader of the children of Benjamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: thirty-five thousand four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Ephraim: one hundred eight thousand one hundred, according to their companies. And they shall set out third.
On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their companies; and the leader of the children of Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
And those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher; and the leader of the children of Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: forty-one thousand five hundred.
Then the tribe of Naphtali; and the leader of the children of Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan;
And his company, that is, those who were numbered of them: fifty-three thousand four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Dan: one hundred fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set out last by their standards.
These are those who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers' households. All who were numbered in the camps according to their companies were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
Thus did the children of Israel do. According to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards and so they set out, every one by their families, according to their fathers' households.