Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel and say to them, My offering, My food for My offerings by fire of a satisfying fragrance to Me, you shall be careful to present to Me at its appointed time.
And you shall say to them, This is the offering by fire which you shall present to Jehovah: two male lambs a year old without blemish each day as a continual burnt offering.
One lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight;
Also a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with the fourth of a hin of beaten oil.
It is a continual burnt offering, which was set up on Mount Sinai for a satisfying fragrance, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
And its drink offering shall be the fourth of a hin for the one lamb; in the sanctuary you shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to Jehovah.
And the other lamb you shall offer at twilight; you shall offer it with the meal offering and its drink offering as in the morning, an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
And on the Sabbath day two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil, and its drink offering--
This is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And at the beginnings of your months you shall present a burnt offering to Jehovah: two bulls of the herd and one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
And three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil, for each bull; and two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram;
And a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal offering for each lamb for a burnt offering, a satisfying fragrance, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
And their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and a third of a hin for the ram, and a fourth of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year.
Also one male goat for a sin offering to Jehovah shall be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And in the first month on the fourteenth day of the month shall be Jehovah's Passover.
And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast; seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten.
On the first day there shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor;
But you shall present an offering by fire, a burnt offering to Jehovah: two bulls of the herd and one ram and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish for you;
And you shall offer their meal offering of fine flour mingled with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for a bull and two-tenths for a ram;
You shall offer one-tenth for each lamb of the seven lambs;
And one male goat as a sin offering, to make expiation for you.
You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
In this way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor.
Also in the day of the firstfruits, when you present a new meal offering to Jehovah in your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no work of labor;
But you shall present a burnt offering for a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah: two bulls of the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old;
And their meal offering of fine flour mingled with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for one ram,
One-tenth for each lamb of the seven lambs;
And one male goat, to make expiation for you.
Besides the continual burnt offering and its meal offering, you shall offer them (they shall be without blemish for you) and their drink offerings.