These are the journeys of the children of Israel, when they went forth out of the land of Egypt by their companies under the direction of Moses and Aaron.
And Moses wrote down the places that they went out from for their journeys according to the commandment of Jehovah; and these are their journeys according to the places they went out from.
Now they journeyed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month. On the day after the passover the children of Israel went out boldly in the sight of all the Egyptians,
While the Egyptians were burying those whom Jehovah had struck down among them, all their firstborn; on their gods Jehovah also executed judgments.
And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses and encamped at Succoth.
And they journeyed from Succoth and encamped at Etham, which is at the edge of the wilderness.
And they journeyed from Etham and turned back to Pi-hahiroth, which faces Baal-zephon; and they encamped before Migdol.
And they journeyed from Pi-hahiroth and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and they went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham and encamped at Marah.
And they journeyed from Marah and came to Elim. And in Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there.
And they journeyed from Elim and encamped by the Red Sea.
And they journeyed from the Red Sea and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.
And they journeyed from the wilderness of Sin and encamped at Dophkah.
And they journeyed from Dophkah and encamped at Alush.
And they journeyed from Alush and encamped at Rephidim, and there was no water for the people to drink there.
And they journeyed from Rephidim and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai.
And they journeyed from the wilderness of Sinai and encamped at Kibroth-hattaavah.
And they journeyed from Kibroth-hattaavah and encamped at Hazeroth.
And they journeyed from Hazeroth and encamped at Rithmah.
And they journeyed from Rithmah and encamped at Rimmon-perez.
And they journeyed from Rimmon-perez and encamped at Libnah.
And they journeyed from Libnah and encamped at Rissah.
And they journeyed from Rissah and encamped at Kehelathah.
And they journeyed from Kehelathah and encamped at Mount Shepher.
And they journeyed from Mount Shepher and encamped at Haradah.
And they journeyed from Haradah and encamped at Makheloth.
And they journeyed from Makheloth and encamped at Tahath.
And they journeyed from Tahath and encamped at Terah.
And they journeyed from Terah and encamped at Mithkah.
And they journeyed from Mithkah and encamped at Hashmonah.
And they journeyed from Hashmonah and encamped at Moseroth.
And they journeyed from Moseroth and encamped at Bene-jaakan.
And they journeyed from Bene-jaakan and encamped at Hor-haggidgad.
And they journeyed from Hor-haggidgad and encamped at Jotbathah.
And they journeyed from Jotbathah and encamped at Abronah.
And they journeyed from Abronah and encamped at Ezion-geber.
And they journeyed from Ezion-geber and encamped in the wilderness of Zin, that is, Kadesh.
And they journeyed from Kadesh and encamped in Mount Hor at the edge of the land of Edom.
And Aaron the priest went up onto Mount Hor at the commandment of Jehovah and died there in the fortieth year after the children of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first day of the month.
And Aaron was one hundred twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Hor.
And the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who was dwelling in the Negev in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
And they journeyed from Mount Hor and encamped at Zalmonah.
And they journeyed from Zalmonah and encamped at Punon.
And they journeyed from Punon and encamped at Oboth.
And they journeyed from Oboth and encamped at Iye-abarim on the border of Moab.
And they journeyed from Iyim and encamped at Dibon-gad.
And they journeyed from Dibon-gad and encamped in Almon-diblathaim.
And they journeyed from Almon-diblathaim and encamped in the mountains of the Abarim before Nebo.
And they journeyed from the mountains of the Abarim and encamped in the plains of Moab beside the Jordan at Jericho.
And they encamped beside the Jordan from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
You shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and you shall destroy all their figured stones and destroy all their molten images and demolish all their high places;
And you shall take possession of the land and dwell in it, for to you I have given the land to possess it.
And you shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the larger you shall give a larger inheritance, and to the smaller you shall give a smaller inheritance. Wherever the lot falls to anyone, that shall be his. You shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers.
But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those whom you let remain of them will become as splinters in your eyes and as thorns in your sides, and they will trouble you in the land in which you are dwelling.
And just as I thought to do to them, so will I do to you.