Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel that they send out of the camp every leper and everyone that has a discharge and everyone who is unclean because of a dead person.
You shall send out both male and female; you shall send them outside the camp so that they will not defile their camp, where I dwell in their midst.
And the children of Israel did so and sent them outside the camp; just as Jehovah had spoken to Moses, so the children of Israel did.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, When a man or woman commits any sin that men commit, so as to act unfaithfully toward Jehovah, and that person realizes his guilt,
Then they shall confess their sin which they have committed, and he shall make restitution according to its principal for his wrong and add to it one-fifth of it and give it to the one whom he has wronged.
But if the man has no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the wrong, the restitution which is made for the wrong goes to Jehovah for the priest, in addition to the ram of the expiation, by which expiation is made for him.
And every heave offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be his.
And everyone's holy things shall be his; whatever anyone gives to the priest, it becomes his.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, If any man's wife goes astray and acts unfaithfully toward him,
And a man lies with her and has sexual relations, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and she is undetected, and she is defiled, and there is no witness against her since she was not caught in the act;
And a spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she has defiled herself; or if a spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she has not defiled herself;
Then the man shall bring his wife to the priest and bring her offering for her, a tenth of an ephah of barley meal. He shall pour no oil upon it nor put frankincense on it; for it is a meal offering of jealousy, a meal offering of remembrance, bringing iniquity to remembrance.
And the priest shall bring her near and set her before Jehovah.
And the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel, and the priest shall take some of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle and put it into the water.
And the priest shall set the woman before Jehovah and let the hair of the woman's head go loose and put the meal offering of remembrance in her hands, which is the meal offering of jealousy, and in the hand of the priest shall be the water of bitterness that brings the curse.
And the priest shall make her take an oath and shall say to the woman, If no man has lain with you and if you have not gone astray to uncleanness while under the authority of your husband, be immune to this water of bitterness that brings the curse.
But if you have gone astray while under the authority of your husband and if you have defiled yourself, and a man besides your husband has lain with you--
Then the priest shall make the woman take an oath with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall say to the woman--Jehovah make you a curse and an oath among your people, when Jehovah makes your thigh waste away and your womb swell;
And this water that brings the curse shall go into your bowels and make your womb swell and your thigh waste away. And the woman shall say, Amen, Amen.
And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall wash them off into the water of bitterness.
And he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that brings the curse; and the water that brings the curse shall enter into her and become bitter.
And the priest shall take the meal offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand, and he shall wave the meal offering before Jehovah and bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take a handful of the meal offering as its memorial portion and burn it upon the altar, and afterward he shall make the woman drink the water.
And when he has made her drink the water, then if she has defiled herself and has acted unfaithfully to her husband, the water that brings the curse will enter into her and become bitter, and her womb will swell, and her thigh will waste away; and the woman shall be a curse among her people.
But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, then she will be immune and able to conceive seed.
This is the law of jealousy when a wife, while under the authority of her husband, goes astray and defiles herself,
Or when the spirit of jealousy comes upon a man, and he is jealous of his wife. He shall set the woman before Jehovah, and the priest shall apply to her all this law.
And the man shall be free from iniquity, but that woman shall bear her iniquity.