Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and say to him, When you set up the lamps, the seven lamps will give light in front of the lampstand.
And Aaron did so; he set up its lamps to give light in front of the lampstand, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
Now this was the workmanship of the lampstand, beaten work of gold; from its base to its flowers it was beaten work. According to the pattern which Jehovah had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take the Levites from among the children of Israel and cleanse them.
And thus you shall do to them to cleanse them: Sprinkle the water of purification upon them, and let them pass a razor over all their flesh and wash their clothes and cleanse themselves.
Then let them take a bull of the herd and its meal offering, fine flour mingled with oil; and a second bull of the herd you shall take for a sin offering.
And you shall present the Levites before the Tent of Meeting and gather the whole assembly of the children of Israel.
And you shall present the Levites before Jehovah, and the children of Israel shall lay their hands upon the Levites.
And Aaron shall offer the Levites before Jehovah as a wave offering from the children of Israel, that they may do the service of Jehovah.
And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bulls, and you shall offer the one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering to Jehovah to make expiation for the Levites.
And you shall set the Levites before Aaron and before his sons, and offer them as a wave offering to Jehovah.
Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, and the Levites shall be Mine.
Then after this the Levites may go in to do the service of the Tent of Meeting. So you shall cleanse them and offer them as a wave offering.
For they are wholly given to Me from among the children of Israel; I have taken them for Myself instead of everyone who opens the womb, the firstborn of all the children of Israel.
For all the firstborn among the children of Israel are Mine, both human and animal. On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I sanctified them for Myself.
And I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children of Israel in the Tent of Meeting, and to make expiation for the children of Israel, that there may be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come near to the sanctuary.
Thus did Moses and Aaron and the whole assembly of the children of Israel do to the Levites; according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did the children of Israel do to them.
And the Levites purified themselves from sin and washed their clothes. Then Aaron offered them as a wave offering before Jehovah, and Aaron made expiation for them to cleanse them.
And after this the Levites went in to do their service in the Tent of Meeting before Aaron and before his sons; as Jehovah had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
This is what applies to the Levites: From twenty-five years old and upward they shall go in to perform the service in the work of the Tent of Meeting.
And from the age of fifty years they shall retire from the service in the work and shall serve no more.
But they may minister to their brothers in the Tent of Meeting, to keep the charge, but they themselves shall do no service. Thus you shall do with the Levites concerning their charges.