Now Jehovah had spoken to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Let the children of Israel keep the passover at its appointed time.
On the fourteenth day of this month at twilight, you shall keep it at its appointed time; according to all its statutes and according to all its ordinances you shall keep it.
Thus Moses told the children of Israel to keep the passover.
And they kept the passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at twilight, in the wilderness of Sinai; according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did.
But there were certain men who were unclean through contact with a dead person, so that they could not keep the passover on that day; so they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day.
And those men said to him, Although we are unclean through contact with a dead person, why must we be kept from presenting the offering of Jehovah at its appointed time among the children of Israel?
And Moses said to them, Stay here so I may hear what Jehovah will command concerning you.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, Any one of you or your descendants who becomes unclean through contact with a dead person or is on a distant journey shall still keep the passover to Jehovah.
In the second month on the fourteenth day at twilight they shall keep it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
They shall not leave any of it until the morning, nor break a bone of it; according to every statute of the passover they shall keep it.
But the man who is clean and is not on a journey yet refrains from keeping the passover, that person shall be cut off from his people, because he did not present Jehovah's offering at its appointed time; that man shall bear his sin.
And if a stranger sojourns with you and keeps the passover to Jehovah; according to the statute of the passover and according to its ordinance, so shall he do. You shall have one statute, both for the sojourner and for the native born in the land.
And on the day that the tabernacle was set up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, the Tent of the Testimony; and in the evening it was like the appearance of fire over the tabernacle until morning.
So it was always; the cloud covered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night.
And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tent, then after that the children of Israel set out; and in the place where the cloud settled, there the children of Israel encamped.
At the commandment of Jehovah the children of Israel set out, and at the commandment of Jehovah they encamped; as long as the cloud settled upon the tabernacle, they remained encamped.
Even when the cloud extended its time over the tabernacle for many days, the children of Israel kept the charge of Jehovah and did not set out.
If sometimes the cloud was upon the tabernacle a few days, according to the commandment of Jehovah they remained encamped; then at the commandment of Jehovah they set out.
If sometimes the cloud remained from evening until morning, when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they set out; or if it remained a day and a night, when the cloud was taken up, they set out.
Whether it was two days or a month or a longer time that the cloud extended its time over the tabernacle and settled above it, the children of Israel remained encamped and did not set out; but when it was taken up, they set out.
At the commandment of Jehovah they encamped, and at the commandment of Jehovah they set out. They kept the charge of Jehovah according to the commandment of Jehovah through Moses.