Now these are the heads of their fathers' houses and the genealogical enrollment of those who went up with me from Babylon in the reign of Artaxerxes the king:
Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hattush.
Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah; and with him one hundred fifty males were enrolled by genealogy.
Of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males.
Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males.
And of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan; and with him fifty males.
And of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males.
And of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him eighty males.
Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred eighteen males.
And of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him one hundred sixty males.
And of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai; and with him twenty-eight males.
And of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred ten males.
And of the sons of Adonikam, the last ones; and these are their names: Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah; and with them sixty males.
And of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males.
And I gathered them together to the river that runs to Ahava, and we camped there three days. When I observed the people and the priests, I found none of the sons of Levi there.
Then I sent for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, leading men; also for Joiarib, and for Elnathan, who were teachers.
And I sent them to Iddo the leading man at the place Casiphia; and I told them what to say to Iddo and his brothers the temple servants at the place Casiphia, namely, to bring ministers to us for the house of our God.
And according to the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; namely, Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen;
And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brothers and their sons, twenty;
And of the temple servants, whom David and the leaders had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred twenty temple servants--all of them were mentioned by name.
Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God to seek from Him a straight way for ourselves and for our little ones and for all our possessions.
For I was ashamed to ask for troops and horsemen from the king to help us against the enemy in the way because we had spoken to the king, saying, The hand of our God is for good upon all those who seek Him, but His power and His wrath is against all those who forsake Him.
So we fasted and sought our God for this, and He was entreated by us.
Then I set apart twelve of the leading men of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them,
And weighed out to them the silver and the gold and the vessels, the heave offering for the house of our God, which the king and his counselors and his princes, and all Israel there present had offered.
I weighed out into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver and one hundred silver vessels of one hundred talents, one hundred talents of gold
And twenty bowls of gold of one thousand darics, and two vessels of fine polished bronze as precious as gold.
And I said to them, You are holy to Jehovah, and the vessels are holy; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to Jehovah, the God of your fathers.
Watch and keep them until you weigh them before the leaders of the priests and the Levites and the leaders of the fathers' houses of Israel at Jerusalem in the chambers of the house of Jehovah.
So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.
Then we set out from the river Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month to go to Jerusalem; and the hand of our God was upon us, and He delivered us from the hand of the enemy and from people set in ambush on the way.
And we came to Jerusalem and remained there three days.
And on the fourth day the silver and the gold and the vessels were weighed out in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest, and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them were the Levites, Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui.
Everything was numbered and weighed, and all its weight was recorded at that time.
The children of those who had been carried away, who came out of captivity, offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel, twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, twelve male goats for a sin offering, all as a burnt offering to Jehovah.
And they delivered the king's decrees to the king's satraps and to the governors beyond the River, and these supported the people and the house of God.