And after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah, saying, Who will go up for us first against the Canaanites, in order to fight against them?
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up. I have now given the land into his hand.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and we will fight against the Canaanites; and I will go also with you into your lot. And Simeon went with him.
So Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they struck ten thousand of their men in Bezek.
And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek and fought with him; and they struck the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
And Adoni-bezek fled; and they pursued after him and caught him, and they cut off his thumbs and his big toes.
And Adoni-bezek said, Seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off gleaned scraps under my table. As I have done, so God has repaid me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and they took it and struck it with the edge of the sword; and they set the city on fire.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who inhabited the hill country and the Negev and the lowland.
Then Judah went against the Canaanites who dwelt in Hebron. (Now the name of Hebron was formerly Kiriath-arba.) And they struck Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai.
And he went up from there to the inhabitants of Debir. (Now the name of Debir was formerly Kiriath-sepher.)
And Caleb said, Whoever strikes Kiriath-sepher and takes it, I will give to him Achsah my daughter as wife.
Then Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And when she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for the field. And she alighted from her donkey, and Caleb said to her, What do you want?
And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for you have given me land in the Negev; give me also springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up from the city of palms with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is to the south of Arad. And they went and dwelt with the people.
Then Judah went with Simeon his brother and struck the Canaanites who inhabited Zephath; and they utterly destroyed it. And they called the name of the city Hormah.
And Judah took Gaza and its territory and Ashkelon and its territory and Ekron and its territory.
And Jehovah was with Judah. And they took possession of the hill country, but they could not dispossess the inhabitants of the valley, for they had chariots of iron.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had spoken; and he dispossessed the three sons of Anak from there.
But the Jebusites, who dwelt in Jerusalem, the children of Benjamin did not dispossess; thus the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
And the house of Joseph, they also, went up against Bethel; and Jehovah was with them.
And the house of Joseph spied out Bethel. (Now the name of the city was formerly Luz.)
And those who watched saw a man coming out of the city; and they said to him, Show us now the entrance of the city, and we will show mercy to you.
And he showed them the entrance of the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites; and he built a city and called its name Luz, which is its name unto this day.
And Manasseh did not dispossess Beth-shean with its towns or Taanach with its towns or the inhabitants of Dor with its towns or the inhabitants of Ibleam with its towns or the inhabitants of Megiddo with its towns, but the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land.
And when Israel became strong, they made the Canaanites forced labor; but they did not utterly dispossess them.
And Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanites who dwelt in Gezer, but the Canaanites dwelt among them in Gezer.
Zebulun did not dispossess the inhabitants of Kitron or the inhabitants of Nahalol, but the Canaanites dwelt among them and became forced labor.
Asher did not dispossess the inhabitants of Acco or the inhabitants of Sidon and Ahlab and Achzib and Helbah and Aphik and Rehob;
But the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites who inhabited the land, for they did not dispossess them.
Naphtali did not dispossess the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh or the inhabitants of Beth-anath; but they dwelt among the Canaanites who inhabited the land. Yet the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath became forced labor for them.
And the Amorites pushed the children of Dan into the hill country, for they would not allow them to come down into the valley.
And the Amorites persisted in dwelling in Har-heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed so that they became forced labor.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Sela and upward.