Then the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And there was a certain man from Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren and had borne no children.
And the Angel of Jehovah appeared to the woman and said to her, Now you are barren and have borne no children; but you will conceive and bear a son.
And now be careful not to drink wine or strong drink nor to eat anything unclean;
For you shall conceive and bear a son. And no razor shall come upon his head, for the boy will be a Nazarite to God from the womb; and he will begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came to me; and His appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very awesome. And I did not ask Him where He was from, nor did He tell me His name;
But He said to me, You shall conceive and bear a son. And now do not drink wine or strong drink, nor eat anything unclean; for the boy will be a Nazarite to God from the womb until the day of his death.
Then Manoah entreated Jehovah and said, Oh, my Lord! Let the man of God, whom You sent, come again to us, I pray; and let Him teach us what we should do with the boy that is to be born.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the Angel of God came again to the woman while she was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her.
And the woman hurried and ran off; and she told her husband and said to him, The man who came to me that day has just appeared to me.
And Manoah rose up and followed his wife and came to the man. And he said to Him, Are You the man who spoke to this woman? And He said, I am.
And Manoah said, Now when Your words come to pass, what rule shall the boy follow, and what shall he do?
And the Angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Observe all that I spoke to this woman.
She is not to eat of anything that comes forth from the grapevine, nor is she to drink wine or strong drink, nor is she to eat anything unclean; she shall observe all that I commanded her.
And Manoah said to the Angel of Jehovah, Let us detain You, we pray, that we may prepare a kid for You.
And the Angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, If you detain Me, I will not eat your food; but if you prepare a burnt offering, offer it up to Jehovah. For Manoah did not know that He was the Angel of Jehovah.
Then Manoah said to the Angel of Jehovah, What is Your name, so that when Your words come to pass, we may honor You?
And the Angel of Jehovah said to him, Why do you ask about My name, since it is wonderful?
And Manoah took the kid with the meal offering and offered it up upon the rock to Jehovah; and He acted wondrously, while Manoah and his wife looked on.
And when the flame went up from the altar to heaven, the Angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, while Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
And the Angel of Jehovah did not appear again to Manoah and his wife. Then Manoah knew that He was the Angel of Jehovah.
And Manoah said to his wife, We will surely die, for we have seen God.
But his wife said to him, If Jehovah had been pleased to kill us, He would not have taken a burnt offering and a meal offering from our hand, nor would He have shown us all these things or let us hear a thing like this at this time.
And the woman bore a son, and she called his name Samson. And the boy grew up, and Jehovah blessed him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him at Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.