Adam, Seth, Enosh,
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz and Diphath and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim.
The sons of Ham: Cush and Mizraim, Put and Canaan.
And the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah and Sabta and Raama and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raama: Sheba and Dedan.
And Cush begot Nimrod: He began to be a mighty one on the earth.
And Mizraim begot the Ludim and the Anamim and the Lehabim and the Naphtuhim
And the Pathrusim and the Casluhim, from which came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim.
And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn and Heth
And the Jebusites and the Amorites and the Girgashites
And the Hivites and the Arkites and the Sinites
And the Arvadites and the Zemarites and the Hamathites.
The sons of Shem: Elam and Asshur and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram and Uz and Hul and Gether and Meshech.
And Arpachshad begot Shelah, and Shelah begot Eber.
And to Eber were born two sons: The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
And Joktan begot Almodad and Sheleph and Hazarmaveth and Jerah
And Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah
And Ebal and Abimael and Sheba
And Ophir and Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah,
Eber, Peleg, Reu,
Serug, Nahor, Terah,
Abram (the same is Abraham).
The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
These are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar and Adbeel and Mibsam;
Mishma and Dumah; Massa, Hadad, and Tema;
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah; these were the sons of Ishmael.
And the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: She bore Zimran and Jokshan and Medan and Midian and Ishbak and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
And the sons of Midian: Ephah and Epher and Hanoch and Abida and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
And Abraham begot Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam and Korah.
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman and Omar, Zephi and Gatam, Kenaz and Timna and Amalek.
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
And the sons of Seir: Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah and Dishon and Ezer and Dishan.
And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. And Lotan's sister: Timna.
The sons of Shobal: Alian and Manahath and Ebal, Shephi and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
The son of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Hamran and Eshban and Ithran and Cheran.
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan, Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
And these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before a king of the children of Israel reigned: Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
And Husham died; and Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Avith.
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River reigned in his place.
And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
And Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
And Hadad died. And the clans of Edom were: Clan Timna, Clan Aliah, Clan Jetheth,
Clan Oholibamah, Clan Elah, Clan Pinon,
Clan Kenaz, Clan Teman, Clan Mibzar,
Clan Magdiel, Clan Iram. These were the clans of Edom.