Then all Israel gathered themselves to David at Hebron, saying, Here we are, your bone and your flesh.
Even previously, when Saul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And Jehovah your God said to you, It is you who shall shepherd My people Israel, and you shall be ruler over My people Israel.
And all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron. And David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Jehovah, and they anointed David king over Israel according to the word of Jehovah spoken by Samuel.
And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, that is, Jebus; and the Jebusites were the inhabitants of the land there.
And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, You shall not come in here. But David took the stronghold of Zion, which is now the city of David.
And David said, Whoever strikes the Jebusites first will be the chief and the captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, so he became chief.
So David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore they called it the city of David.
And he built the city all around, from the Millo even unto the surrounding area, and Joab repaired the rest of the city.
And David became greater and greater, and Jehovah of hosts was with him.
And these are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who showed themselves strong with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to make him king according to the word of Jehovah concerning Israel.
And these are the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he brandished his spear against three hundred, and they were slain at one time.
After him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite; he was among the three mighty men.
He was with David at Pas-dammim, and the Philistines gathered themselves there for battle, and there was a plot of land full of barley there; and the people fled before the Philistines.
But they stationed themselves in the midst of the plot and delivered it and struck the Philistines, and Jehovah accomplished a great salvation.
Now three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David in the cave of Adullam while the army of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim.
Now at that time David was in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was in Bethlehem at that time.
And David said longingly, If only someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate!
And the three burst through the camp of the Philistines and drew water from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate. And they carried it and brought it to David, but David would not drink it; rather he poured it out to Jehovah.
And he said, Far be it from me, before my God, that I should do this! Shall I drink the blood of these men who went at the risk of their lives? For at the risk of their lives they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did.
And Abishai the brother of Joab was chief of the three. And he brandished his spear against three hundred, who were slain; and he had a name among the three.
He was honored among the two of the thirty, and he became their leader; but he did not attain to the three.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man from Kabzeel, was great in mighty deeds. He struck the two sons of Ariel the Moabite; he also went down and struck a lion in the midst of a pit on a snowy day.
And he struck an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits tall. And the Egyptian had a spear in his hand like a weaver's beam, but he went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the hand of the Egyptian and slew him with his own spear.
These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and he had a name among the three mighty men.
He was indeed more honored than the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his bodyguard.
And the mighty men of the armies were: Asahel the brother of Joab; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem;
Shammoth the Harodite; Helez the Pelonite;
Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; Abiezer the Anathothite;
Sibbecai the Hushathite; Ilai the Ahohite;
Maharai the Netophathite; Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite;
Ithai the son of Ribai from Gibeah of the children of Benjamin; Benaiah the Pirathonite;
Hurai from the brooks of Gaash; Abiel the Arbathite;
Azmaveth the Baharumite; Eliahba the Shaalbonite;
Of the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite;
Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite; Eliphal the son of Ur;
Hepher the Mecherathite; Ahijah the Pelonite;
Hezro the Carmelite; Naarai the son of Ezbai;
Joel the brother of Nathan; Mibhar the son of Hagri;
Zelek the Ammonite; Naharai the Beerothite, the armor bearer to Joab the son of Zeruiah;
Ira the Ithrite; Gareb the Ithrite;
Uriah the Hittite; Zabad the son of Ahlai;
Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him;
Hanan the son of Maacah and Joshaphat the Mithnite;
Uzzia the Ashterathite; Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite;
Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite;
Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite;
Eliel and Obed and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.