And David made houses for himself in the city of David, and he prepared a place for the Ark of God and pitched a tent for it.
Then David said, None should bear the Ark of God except the Levites, for Jehovah has chosen them to bear the Ark of Jehovah and to minister to Him forever.
So David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem in order to bring up the Ark of Jehovah to its place, which he had prepared for it.
And David gathered the sons of Aaron and the Levites:
Of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the leader, and his brothers, one hundred twenty;
Of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the leader, and his brothers, two hundred twenty;
Of the sons of Gershom, Joel the leader, and his brothers, one hundred thirty;
Of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the leader, and his brothers, two hundred;
Of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the leader, and his brothers, eighty;
Of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the leader, and his brothers, one hundred twelve.
And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests and the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah and Joel, Shemaiah and Eliel and Amminadab;
And he said to them, You are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites; sanctify yourselves, you and your brothers, and bring up the Ark of Jehovah the God of Israel to the place that I have prepared for it.
For because you did not bring it up the first time, Jehovah our God broke forth upon us; for we did not seek Him according to the ordinance.
So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves in order to bring up the Ark of Jehovah the God of Israel.
And the sons of the Levites bore the Ark of God as Moses had commanded, according to the word of Jehovah, upon their shoulders with the poles upon them.
And David told the leaders of the Levites to appoint their brothers as singers with musical instruments--harps, lyres, loud-sounding cymbals--to raise sounds of joy.
So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brothers, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brothers, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;
And with them their brothers of the second order: Zechariah, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth and Jehiel and Unni, Eliab and Benaiah and Maaseiah and Mattithiah and Eliphelehu and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom and Jeiel, the doorkeepers.
So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound aloud with bronze cymbals;
And Zechariah and Aziel and Shemiramoth and Jehiel and Unni and Eliab and Maaseiah and Benaiah with harps set to alamoth;
And Mattithiah and Eliphelehu and Mikneiah and Obed-edom and Jeiel and Azaziah were appointed to lead with lyres set to sheminith.
And Chenaniah, the leader of the Levites, was over the song; he instructed about the song, because he was skillful.
And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the Ark.
And Shebaniah and Joshaphat and Nethanel and Amasai and Zechariah and Benaiah and Eliezer, the priests, blew the trumpets before the Ark of God; and Obed-edom and Jehiah were doorkeepers for the Ark.
So David and the elders of Israel and the captains of thousands went to bring up the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah from the house of Obed-edom with rejoicing.
And because God helped the Levites who bore the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.
And David was clothed with a fine linen robe, as were all the Levites who bore the Ark and the singers and Chenaniah, the song leader of the singers; and David had on a linen ephod.
So all Israel brought up the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah with shouting and with the sound of the horn and with trumpets and with cymbals, sounding aloud with harps and lyres.
And when the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah came to the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked down through a window and saw King David dancing and playing; and she despised him in her heart.