And they brought the Ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it. And they presented burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
And when David finished offering up the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah.
And he apportioned to everyone of Israel, to both men and women, to each one, a loaf of bread and a portion of meat and a cake of raisins.
And he appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the Ark of Jehovah and to commemorate and thank and praise Jehovah the God of Israel:
Asaph the chief; and second to him Zechariah; Jeiel and Shemiramoth and Jehiel and Mattithiah and Eliab and Benaiah and Obed-edom and Jeiel, with harps and with lyres; and Asaph sounding aloud with cymbals;
And Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually before the Ark of the Covenant of God.
On that day, at that time, David first ordained the giving of thanks to Jehovah by the hand of Asaph and his brothers.
Give thanks to Jehovah; call upon His name; / Make known His deeds among the peoples.
Sing to Him; sing psalms to Him; / Muse upon all His wondrous deeds.
Glory in His holy name; / Let the heart of those who seek Jehovah rejoice.
Seek Jehovah and His strength; / Seek His face continually.
Remember His wondrous deeds, which He has done, / His signs and the judgments of His mouth,
O seed of Israel His servant, / O children of Jacob, His chosen ones.
He is Jehovah our God; / His judgments are in all the earth.
Remember His covenant forever, / The word that He commanded to a thousand generations,
The covenant that He made with Abraham, / And His oath unto Isaac.
And He confirmed it unto Jacob as a statute, / Unto Israel as an eternal covenant,
Saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan, / The portion of your inheritance;
When you were men few in number, / Indeed very few and strangers in the land;
And they went about from nation to nation, / And from one kingdom to another people.
He allowed no man to oppress them; / Indeed He rebuked kings for their sake.
Saying, Do not touch My anointed ones, / And do My prophets no harm.
Sing to Jehovah all the earth; / Proclaim His salvation from day to day.
Declare His glory among the nations, / His wondrous deeds among all the peoples.
For Jehovah is great and much to be praised, / And He is to be feared above all gods.
For all the gods of the peoples are idols, / But Jehovah made the heavens.
Majesty and splendor are before Him; / Strength and gladness are in His place.
Ascribe to Jehovah, O families of the peoples, / Ascribe to Jehovah glory and strength;
Ascribe to Jehovah the glory of His name; / Bring an offering, and come before Him. / Worship Jehovah in holy splendor;
Tremble before Him, all the earth. / Indeed the world has been established; it will not be moved;
Let the heavens rejoice and the earth be glad; / And let them say among the nations, Jehovah reigns!
Let the sea and its fullness roar; / Let the field and all that is in it exult;
Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy / Before Jehovah, for He is coming / To judge the earth.
Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good, / For His lovingkindness is forever;
And say, Save us, O God of our salvation; / And gather us and deliver us out of the nations, / That we may give thanks to Your holy name, / That we may glory in Your praise.
Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, From eternity to eternity. And all the people said, Amen, and praised Jehovah.
So there before the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah he left Asaph and his brothers to minister before the Ark continually, as every day's work dictated;
As well as Obed-edom and his sixty-eight relatives, with Obed-edom the son of Jeduthun and Hosah as gatekeepers;
And Zadok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of Jehovah in the high place which was at Gibeon,
To offer up burnt offerings to Jehovah upon the burnt offering altar continually every morning and every evening, according to all that was written in the law of Jehovah, which He commanded Israel.
And with them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest of those who had been chosen, who had been mentioned by name, to give thanks to Jehovah, for His lovingkindness endures forever.
And with them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those who were to sound aloud and with instruments for the songs of God, and the sons of Jeduthun were to be at the gate.
And all the people, each one, departed to his house; and David returned to bless his house.