And as David dwelt in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah dwells under curtains.
And Nathan said to David, All that is in your heart do, for God is with you.
And in that night the word of God came to Nathan, saying,
Go and say to David My servant, Thus says Jehovah, It will not be you who builds Me a house to dwell in.
For I have not dwelt in a house, since the day I brought up Israel to this day; but I have been from tent to tent and from tabernacle to tabernacle.
In all My going about among all Israel, did I ever speak a word to any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people, saying, Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?
And now thus shall you say to My servant David, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you might be ruler over My people Israel;
And I have been with you in every place that you have gone and have cut off all your enemies before you; and I will make a name for you, like the name of the great ones who are on the earth.
And I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them there, that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more; and the sons of wickedness will waste them away no more as before,
Even since the time when I commanded that there be judges over My people Israel; and I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover I declare to you that Jehovah will build you a house.
When your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, I will raise up your seed after you, which will be from your sons, and I will establish his kingdom.
It is he who will build a house for Me, and I will establish his throne forever.
I will be his Father, and he will be My son; and My lovingkindness I will not take from him, as I took it away from him who was before you.
And I will set him in My house and My kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever.
According to all these words and according to this whole vision did Nathan speak to David.
Then King David went and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Jehovah God, and what is my house that You have brought me this far?
And this was a small thing in Your sight, O God; but You have spoken of the house of Your servant for a great while to come; and You have regarded me according to the custom for a man of high degree, O Jehovah God.
What more can David add to say to You concerning this honoring of Your servant? For You know Your servant.
O Jehovah, for Your servant's sake and according to Your own heart, You have done all this greatness to make known all these great things.
O Jehovah, there is none like You, nor is there any God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
And who is like Your people Israel, a nation unique on the earth, which God went to redeem to Himself as a people in order to make for Yourself a name of greatness and awesomeness to drive out nations from before Your people, whom You have redeemed out of Egypt?
And You have made Your people Israel to be a people to You forever, and You, O Jehovah, became their God.
And now, O Jehovah, may the word which You have spoken concerning Your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as You have spoken.
And may Your name be established and magnified forever when men say, Jehovah of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel; and the house of David Your servant will be established before You.
For You, O my God, have revealed to Your servant that You will build him a house; therefore Your servant has found it in his heart to pray before You.
And now, O Jehovah, You are God, and You have spoken this good matter concerning Your servant;
Now therefore You have been pleased to bless the house of Your servant, that it may be before You forever; for You, O Jehovah, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.