And after this David struck the Philistines and subdued them. And he took Gath and her villages out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he struck Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute.
Then David struck Hadadezer the king of Zobah at Hamath, when he went to establish his power at the river Euphrates.
And David took from him one thousand chariots and seven thousand horsemen and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And David hamstrung all the chariot horses but left enough of them for a hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer the king of Zobah, David struck twenty-two thousand men among the Syrians.
And David put garrisons among the Syrians of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David and brought tribute. And Jehovah preserved David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
And from Tibhath and Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took very much bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the vessels of bronze.
Then when Tou the king of Hamath heard that David had struck down all the army of Hadadezer the king of Zobah,
He sent Hadoram his son to King David to greet him and congratulate him for fighting against Hadadezer and striking him down, for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And Hadoram brought all kinds of articles of gold and of silver and of bronze.
King David consecrated these also to Jehovah along with the silver and gold that he had carried from all the nations: from the Edomites and from the Moabites and from the children of Ammon and from the Philistines and from the Amalekites.
Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah struck down the Edomites in the Valley of Salt, that is, eighteen thousand men.
And he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah preserved David wherever he went.
So David reigned over all Israel and executed justice and righteousness for all his people.
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder.
And Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, and Shavsha was scribe.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and David's sons were chief at the king's side.