And Satan stood up against Israel and moved David to number Israel.
And David said to Joab and to the captains of the people, Go and count Israel, from Beer-sheba to Dan, and bring the results to me, that I may know their number.
And Joab said, May Jehovah add to His people a hundred times as many as they are. But, O my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? Why does my lord request this? Why should he become a cause of guilt to Israel?
Nevertheless the king's word prevailed over Joab, and Joab went forth and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem.
And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to David. And all Israel were one million one hundred thousand men who drew the sword, and Judah was four hundred seventy thousand men who drew the sword.
But he did not number Levi and Benjamin among them, for the king's word was abhorrent to Joab.
And this matter displeased God, and He struck Israel.
And David said to God, I have sinned greatly in that I have done this thing; but now put away the iniquity of Your servant, for I have acted very foolishly.
And Jehovah spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying,
Go and speak to David, saying, Thus says Jehovah, I am offering you three things; choose for yourself one of them, that I may do it to you.
So Gad went to David and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Take for yourself
Either three years of famine, or three months to be swept away before your adversaries, while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or three days of the sword of Jehovah, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Jehovah destroying throughout all the territory of Israel. And now see what word I should return to Him who sent me.
And David said to Gad, I am in a great strait; let me fall into the hand of Jehovah, for His compassions are very great; and do not let me fall into the hand of man.
So Jehovah sent a pestilence in Israel, and seventy thousand people of Israel fell.
And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it; but as he was destroying it, Jehovah saw and repented of the harm. And He said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now hold back your hand. And the angel of Jehovah was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
And David lifted up his eyes and saw the angel of Jehovah standing between the earth and the heavens, with his drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, covered with sackcloth, fell on their faces.
And David said to God, Was it not I who ordered the numbering of the people? And it is I who have sinned and acted very wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done? O Jehovah my God, let Your hand, I pray, be against me and against the house of my father, but not against Your people that they should be plagued.
And the angel of Jehovah commanded Gad to tell David that David should go up and raise up an altar to Jehovah on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
And David went up at Gad's word, which he spoke in the name of Jehovah.
And Ornan turned back and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him hid themselves; and Ornan was threshing wheat.
And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David. And he went forth from the threshing floor and bowed down to David with his face to the ground.
And David said to Ornan, Give me the site of the threshing floor that I may build on it an altar to Jehovah. For the full price you shall give it to me, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
And Ornan said to David, Take it; and may my lord the king do whatever seems good in his sight. Look, I have given the oxen for the burnt offerings and the threshing instruments for the wood and the wheat for the meal offering--all this I give.
But King David said to Ornan, No; but I will surely buy it for the full price, for I will not take what is yours for Jehovah and offer up burnt offerings that cost me nothing.
So David gave to Ornan six hundred shekels of gold by weight for the site.
And there David built an altar to Jehovah, and he offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. And he called on Jehovah, and He answered him with fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offering.
And Jehovah commanded the angel, and he returned his sword to its sheath.
At that time, when David saw that Jehovah had answered him on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there.
And the tabernacle of Jehovah, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering at that time were in the high place at Gibeon.
And David was not able to go before it to inquire of God because he was terrified of the sword of the angel of Jehovah.