Now when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel.
And he gathered all the leaders of Israel and the priests and the Levites.
And the Levites were numbered from thirty years old and upward; and their number, head by head and man by man, was thirty-eight thousand.
Of these twenty-four thousand were to oversee the work of the house of Jehovah, and six thousand were officers and judges,
And four thousand were gatekeepers, and four thousand were to praise Jehovah with the instruments that I have made for praising, said David.
And David formed them into divisions according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Of the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei.
The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief and Zetham and Joel, three.
The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth and Haziel and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers' houses of Ladan.
And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei.
And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second. But Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons; therefore they became a father's house in one reckoning.
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.
The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron was separated that he might sanctify the most holy things forever, he and his sons, to burn incense before Jehovah, to minister to Him, and to bless in His name forever.
And as for Moses the man of God, his sons were named among the tribe of Levi.
The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief.
And the sons of Eliezer were: Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.
The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief.
The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief and Isshiah the second.
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
And Eleazar died and had no sons, only daughters; and their brothers the sons of Kish took them as their wives.
The sons of Mushi: Mahli and Eder and Jeremoth, three.
These were the sons of Levi according to their fathers' houses, the heads of the fathers' houses of those who had been counted, by the number of names, head by head, who did the work for the service of the house of Jehovah, from twenty years old and upward.
For David said, Jehovah the God of Israel has given rest to His people, and He will dwell in Jerusalem forever;
And also the Levites need not carry the tabernacle and all its vessels for its service.
For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered from twenty years and upward.
For their station was alongside the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of Jehovah in the courts and in the chambers and in the purifying of all the holy things, that is, the work of the service of the house of God;
And for the rows of bread and the fine flour of the meal offering and the unleavened wafers and what is baked in the pan and what is mixed with oil and all measures of quantity and size;
And to stand morning by morning to thank and praise Jehovah, and likewise in the evening;
And to offer all the burnt offerings to Jehovah, according to the number ordained for them, on the Sabbaths, at the new moons, and on the appointed feasts, continually before Jehovah;
And they were to keep the charge of the Tent of Meeting and the charge of the sanctuary and the charge of the sons of Aaron their brothers for the service of the house of Jehovah.