And these are the children of Israel by their number, the heads of fathers' houses, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all the matters of the divisions that came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year; for every division there were twenty-four thousand.
Over the first division for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
He was from the children of Perez, the chief of all the captains of the army for the first month.
And over the division of the second month was Dodai the Ahohite and his division, with Mikloth being the leader; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The third captain of the army for the third month was Benaiah the chief, the son of Jehoiada the priest; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
This is that Benaiah who was the mighty man of the thirty and who was over the thirty; and in his division was Ammizabad his son.
The fourth for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The fifth for the fifth month was the captain Shamhuth the Izrahite and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The sixth for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The seventh for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, from the children of Ephraim; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The eighth for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, from the Zerahites; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The ninth for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anathothite, from the Benjamites; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The tenth for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, from the Zerahites; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The eleventh for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, from the children of Ephraim; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The twelfth for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel; and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
And over the tribes of Israel were these: for the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri, the leader; for the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah;
For Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; for Aaron, Zadok;
For Judah, Elihu, one of the brothers of David; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael;
For Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel;
For the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah;
For the other half of Manasseh, in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner;
For Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the captains of the tribes of Israel.
But David did not take the number of those from twenty years old and under, because Jehovah had said He would increase Israel like the stars of heaven.
Joab the son of Zeruiah had begun to number them but did not finish; and because of this, wrath came upon Israel. Nor was the number put into the account in the chronicles of King David.
And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel; and over the treasures in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages and in the towers was Jonathan the son of Uzziah;
And over those who did the work of the field for tilling the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub;
And over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite; and over the produce of the vineyards in the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite;
And over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that were in the lowland was Baal-hanan the Gederite; and over the oil stores was Joash;
And over the cattle that grazed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite; and over the cattle that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai;
And over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite; and over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite; and over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite.
All these were the overseers of the property that belonged to King David.
In addition, Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, a man of understanding, and a scribe; and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons;
And Ahithophel was the king's counselor; and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend;
And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, then Abiathar; and the captain of the king's army was Joab.