And David assembled at Jerusalem all the leaders of Israel: the leaders of the tribes, and the leaders of the divisions who served the king, and the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, and the overseers of all the property and cattle of the king and of his sons, with the eunuchs and the mighty men, indeed all the mighty men of valor.
And David the king rose to his feet and said, Hear me, my brothers and my people: I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah and for the footstool of our God, and I prepared materials for building it.
But God said to me, You shall not build a house for My name, for you are a man of war and have shed blood.
But Jehovah the God of Israel chose me out of all my father's house to be king over Israel forever; for He chose Judah as leader, and in the house of Judah the house of my father, and among the sons of my father He took pleasure in me, making me king over all Israel.
And out of all my sons--for Jehovah has given me many sons--He has chosen Solomon my son to sit on the throne of the kingdom of Jehovah over Israel.
And He said to me, Solomon your son, he shall build My house and My courts; for I have chosen him to be My son, and I will be his Father.
And I will establish his kingdom forever, if he is resolute in doing My commandments and My ordinances, as on this day.
And now in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of Jehovah, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek after all the commandments of Jehovah your God in order that you may possess the good land and leave it as an inheritance forever to your children after you.
And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father, and serve Him with your whole heart and with a willing soul, for Jehovah searches all the hearts and understands every imagination of the thoughts. If you seek Him, He will be found by you; but if you forsake Him, He will cast you away forever.
See now that Jehovah has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary--be strong and do it.
Then David gave Solomon his son the pattern of the portico of the temple and its buildings and its storehouses and its upper rooms and its inner rooms and the building for the expiation cover;
And the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, for the courts of the house of Jehovah, and for all the chambers around, and for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of the dedicated gifts;
And for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of Jehovah, and for all the vessels of the service of the house of Jehovah;
And for the gold, by weight of the gold for all the vessels of each kind of service; for all the vessels of silver, by weight for all the vessels for each kind of service;
And for the weight of the lampstands of gold and their lamps of gold, by weight for each lampstand and its lamps; and for the weight of the lampstands of silver, by weight for the lampstand and its lamps, according to the service of each kind of lampstand;
And for the gold, by weight for the tables of the rows of bread for each table, and for the silver for the tables of silver;
And for the forks and the basins and the pitchers, of pure gold; and for the bowls of gold, by weight for each bowl; and for the bowls of silver, by weight for each bowl;
And for the incense altar of refined gold, by weight; and gold for the figure of the chariot, that is, the cherubim, spreading out their wings and covering the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah.
All this, said David, has He made clear by a writing from the hand of Jehovah upon me, all the details of the pattern.
And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and take courage and do it; do not be afraid or dismayed, for Jehovah God, my God, is with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you until the completion of all the work for the service of the house of Jehovah.
And here are the divisions of priests and Levites for all the service of the house of God, and with you in all the work will be every willing man with wisdom for any service; also the leaders and all the people will be wholly at your command.