And these are the sons of David, who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second, Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelitess;
The third, Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai the king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith;
The fifth, Shephatiah by Abital; the sixth, Ithream, by Eglah his wife.
Six were born to him in Hebron. And he reigned there seven years and six months; and he reigned in Jerusalem thirty-three years.
And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea and Shobab and Nathan and Solomon: four, by Bath-shua the daughter of Ammiel;
And Ibhar and Elishama and Eliphelet
And Nogah and Nepheg and Japhia
And Elishama and Eliada and Eliphelet, nine.
All were sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister.
And Solomon's son was Rehoboam; Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
Amon his son, Josiah his son.
And the sons of Josiah: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
And the son of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son; Zedekiah his son.
And the sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son,
And Malchiram and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Neda-biah.
And the sons of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister;
And Hashubah and Ohel and Berechiah and Hasadiah and Jushab-hesed, five.
And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Isaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah.
And the son of Shecaniah: Shemaiah; and the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush and Igal and Bariah and Neariah and Shaphat, six.
And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai and Hezekiah and Azrikam, three.
And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah and Eliashib and Pelaiah and Akkub and Johanan and Delaiah and Anani, seven.