The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel.
And the children of Amram: Aaron and Moses and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Eleazar begot Phinehas; Phinehas begot Abishua,
And Abishua begot Bukki, and Bukki begot Uzzi,
And Uzzi begot Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begot Meraioth;
Meraioth begot Amariah, and Amariah begot Ahitub,
And Ahitub begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Ahimaaz,
And Ahimaaz begot Azariah, and Azariah begot Johanan,
And Johanan begot Azariah (it was he who served as priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem);
And Azariah begot Amariah, and Amariah begot Ahitub,
And Ahitub begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Shallum,
And Shallum begot Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begot Azariah,
And Azariah begot Seraiah, and Seraiah begot Jehozadak,
And Jehozadak went into captivity when Jehovah carried away Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel.
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of Levi according to their fathers:
Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth.
As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son,
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
And the sons of Samuel: the firstborn Joel and Abijah.
The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son,
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of Jehovah after the Ark was at rest.
And they ministered before the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting with singing until Solomon built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem; and they attended to their service according to their order.
And these are they who attended and their sons: Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,
The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
The son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,
The son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel;
And his brother Asaph, who stood at his right hand: Asaph, the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea,
The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah,
The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.
And their brothers the sons of Merari were on the left hand: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
The son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
The son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer,
The son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
And their brothers the Levites were given to all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
And Aaron and his sons made offerings upon the altar of burnt offering and upon the altar of incense for all the work of the Holy of Holies and in order to make expiation for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
And these are their dwelling places according to their encampments, within their borders. To the sons of Aaron, to the family of the Kohathites (for to them did the lot come):
And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah and its pasture lands surrounding it;
But the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
And to the children of Aaron they gave the city of refuge, Hebron; and Libnah and its pasture lands, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa and its pasture lands,
And Hilen and its pasture lands, Debir and its pasture lands,
And Ashan and its pasture lands, and Beth-shemesh and its pasture lands;
And out of the tribe of Benjamin: Geba and its pasture lands, and Alemeth and its pasture lands, and Anathoth and its pasture lands. All their cities were thirteen cities, according to their families.
And to the rest of the children of Kohath were given by lot out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, half of Manasseh, ten cities.
And to the children of Gershom, according to their families, out of the tribe of Issachar and out of the tribe of Asher and out of the tribe of Naphtali and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
To the children of Merari were given by lot, according to their families, out of the tribe of Reuben and out of the tribe of Gad and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the children of Israel gave the cities and their pasture lands to the Levites.
And they gave by lot those cities which were mentioned by name out of the tribe of the children of Judah and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon and out of the tribe of the children of Benjamin.
And some of the families of the children of Kohath had cities of their territory from the tribe of Ephraim.
And they gave them the city of refuge Shechem and its pasture lands in the hill country of Ephraim, and Gezer and its pasture lands,
And Jokmeam and its pasture lands, and Beth-horon and its pasture lands,
And Aijalon and its pasture lands, and Gath-rimmon and its pasture lands;
And out of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Aner and its pasture lands, and Bileam and its pasture lands, for the rest of the families of the children of Kohath.
To the children of Gershom were given out of the family of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan and its pasture lands, and Ashtaroth and its pasture lands;
And out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh and its pasture lands, Daberath and its pasture lands,
And Ramoth and its pasture lands, and Anem and its pasture lands;
And out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal and its pasture lands, and Abdon and its pasture lands,
And Hukok and its pasture lands, and Rehob and its pasture lands;
And out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee and its pasture lands, and Hammon and its pasture lands, and Kiriathaim and its pasture lands.
To the rest of the children of Merari were given out of the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono and its pasture lands, and Tabor and its pasture lands;
And on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness and its pasture lands, and Jahzah and its pasture lands,
And Kedemoth and its pasture lands, and Mephaath and its pasture lands;
And out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead and its pasture lands, and Mahanaim and its pasture lands,
And Heshbon and its pasture lands, and Jazer and its pasture lands.