And the sons of Issachar were Tola and Puah, Jashub and Shimron, four.
And the sons of Tola: Uzzi and Rephaiah and Jeriel and Jahmai and Ibsam and Shemuel, the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Tola were mighty men of valor in their generations; their number in the days of David was twenty-two thousand six hundred.
And the son of Uzzi: Izrahiah; and the sons of Izrahiah: Michael and Obadiah and Joel and Isshiah; all five of them were chief men.
And with them by their generations, according to their fathers' houses, were bands for war, thirty-six thousand; for they had many wives and sons.
And their brothers among all the families of Issachar were valiant men of valor, enrolled by genealogy, in all eighty-seven thousand.
The sons of Benjamin: Bela and Becher and Jediael, three.
And the sons of Bela: Ezbon and Uzzi and Uzziel and Jerimoth and Iri, five; they were the heads of fathers' houses, mighty men of valor, and were enrolled by genealogy, twenty-two thousand thirty-four.
And the sons of Becher: Zemirah and Joash and Eliezer and Elioenai and Omri and Jeremoth and Abijah and Anathoth and Alemeth; all these were the sons of Becher.
And they were enrolled by genealogy by their generations, the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valor, twenty thousand two hundred.
And the son of Jediael: Bilhan; and the sons of Bilhan: Jeush and Benjamin and Ehud and Chenaanah and Zethan and Tarshish and Ahishahar.
All these were the sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valor, seventeen thousand two hundred, ready for the service of war.
And Shuppim and Huppim, the children of Ir; Hushim, the son of Aher.
The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel and Guni and Jezer and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
The sons of Manasseh: Asriel, whom his Syrian concubine bore; she bore Machir the father of Gilead.
And Machir took a wife, the sister of Huppim and Shuppim; and the name of their sister was Maacah. And the name of the second son was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters.
And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
And the son of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod and Abiezer and Mahlah.
And the sons of Shemidah were Ahian and Shechem and Likhi and Aniam.
And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah and Bered his son and Tahath his son and Eleadah his son and Tahath his son
And Zabad his son and Shuthelah his son and Ezer and Elead. And the men of Gath who had been born in the land slew them, because they came down to take their cattle.
And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
And he went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son; and he called his name Beriah, for it was when misfortune was in his house.
And his daughter was Sheerah; and she built lower and upper Beth-horon and Uzzen-sheerah.
And Rephah was his son, as well as Resheph and Telah his son and Tahan his son,
Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
Nun his son, Joshua his son.
And their possession and dwelling places were Bethel and its villages, and Naaran to the east, and Gezer to the west and its villages, and Shechem and its villages as far as to Ayyah and its villages.
And in the hands of the children of Manasseh were Beth-shean and its villages, Taanach and its villages, Megiddo and its villages, Dor and its villages. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of Israel.
The sons of Asher: Imnah and Ishvah and Ishvi and Beriah; and Serah was their sister.
And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel, who is the father of Birzaith.
And Heber begot Japhlet and Shomer and Hotham and Shua their sister.
And the sons of Japhlet: Pasach and Bimhal and Ashvath; these are the sons of Japhlet.
And the sons of Shemer: Ahi and Rohgah and Jehubbah and Aram.
And the sons of his brother Helem: Zophah and Imna and Shelesh and Amal.
The sons of Zophah: Suah and Harnepher and Shual and Beri and Imrah,
Bezer and Hod and Shamma and Shilshah and Ithran and Beera.
And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh and Pispah and Ara.
And the sons of Ulla: Arah and Hanniel and Rizia.
All these were the sons of Asher, the heads of fathers' houses, choice and mighty men of valor, chiefs of the princes. And the number of them enrolled by genealogy for the service in war was twenty-six thousand men.