And Benjamin begot Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
And Bela had sons: Addar and Gera and Abihud
And Abishua and Naaman and Ahoah
And Gera and Shephuphan and Huram.
And these are the sons of Ehud (these were the heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba; and they carried them away to Manahath,
Namely, Naaman and Ahijah and Gera; he carried them into exile); and he begot Uzza and Ahihud.
And Shaharaim begot children in the field of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives.
And he begot by Hodesh his wife: Jobab and Zibia and Mesha and Malcham
And Jeuz and Sachia and Mirmah; these were his sons, the heads of fathers' houses.
And by Hushim he begot Abitub and Elpaal.
And the sons of Elpaal: Eber and Misham and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod and its villages;
And Beriah and Shema, who were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon; they drove away the inhabitants of Gath.
And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
And Zebadiah and Arad and Eder
And Michael and Ishpah and Joha were the sons of Beriah.
And Zebadiah and Meshullam and Hizki and Heber
And Ishmerai and Izliah and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
And Jakim and Zichri and Zabdi
And Elienai and Zillethai and Eliel
And Adaiah and Beraiah and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
And Ishpan and Eber and Eliel
And Abdon and Zichri and Hanan
And Hananiah and Elam and Anthothijah
And Iphdeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
And Shamsherai and Shehariah and Athaliah
And Jaareshiah and Elijah and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
These were heads of fathers' houses, according to their generations, chief men; these dwelt in Jerusalem.
And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon, and his wife's name was Maacah;
And his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur and Kish and Baal and Nadab
And Gedor and Ahio and Zecher and Mikloth.
And Mikloth begot Shimeah. And these also dwelt opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.
And Ner begot Kish; and Kish begot Saul; and Saul begot Jonathan and Malchishua and Abinadab and Esh-baal.
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begot Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon and Melech and Tarea and Ahaz.
And Ahaz begot Jehoaddah; and Jehoaddah begot Alemeth and Azmaveth and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza;
And Moza begot Binea; Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
And Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael and Sheariah and Obadiah and Hanan; all these were the sons of Azel.
And the sons of Eshek his brother were Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers; and they had many children and grandchildren, one hundred fifty. All these were of the sons of Benjamin.