So all Israel was enrolled by genealogy, and they are now written in the book of the kings of Israel; and Judah was carried away captive to Babylon for their unfaithfulness.
Now the first ones to dwell in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants.
And some of the children of Judah and some of the children of Benjamin and some of the children of Ephraim and Manasseh dwelt in Jerusalem:
Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Perez the son of Judah;
And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn and his sons.
And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their brothers, six hundred ninety.
And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah;
And Ibneiah the son of Jeroham: and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;
And their brothers, according to their generations, nine hundred fifty-six; all these men were heads of fathers' houses according to their fathers' houses.
And of the priests: Jedaiah and Jehoiarib and Jachin;
And Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;
And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah; and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;
And their brothers, heads of their fathers' houses, one thousand seven hundred sixty able men for the work of the service of the house of God.
And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
And Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal; and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;
And Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.
And the gatekeepers: Shallum and Akkub and Talmon and Ahiman and their brothers. Shallum was the chief,
Being stationed until then at the king's gate on the east. These were the gatekeepers for the camps of the children of Levi.
And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers of his father's house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service as keepers of the thresholds of the tent; and their fathers had been over the camp of Jehovah, keepers of the entrance.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them in time past; Jehovah was with him.
Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper of the entrance of the Tent of Meeting.
All these who were chosen to be gatekeepers in the thresholds were two hundred twelve. These were enrolled by genealogy in their villages; David and Samuel the seer appointed them because of their faithfulness.
So they and their sons had charge of the gates of the house of Jehovah, the house of the tent, as guards.
On the four sides were the gatekeepers, toward the east, west, north, and south.
And their brothers in their villages were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them:
For the four chief gatekeepers, who were Levites, were faithful and were over the chambers and over the treasuries in the house of God.
And they spent the night around the house of God because the charge of the watch was upon them; and they had charge of opening it morning by morning.
And some of them had charge of the vessels of service; for these were counted when they were brought in, and they were counted when they were taken out.
And some of them also were appointed over the furniture, and over all the vessels of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour and the wine and the oil and the frankincense and the spices.
And some of the sons of the priests prepared the compounding of the spices.
And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with the things that were baked in pans.
And some of their brothers from the sons of the Kohathites were over the rows of bread, to prepare them every Sabbath.
And these are the singers, heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, who dwelt in the chambers and were free from other service, for they were employed in their work day and night.
These were heads of fathers' houses of the Levites according to their generations, chief men; these dwelt at Jerusalem.
And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, and his wife's name was Maacah;
And his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur and Kish and Baal and Ner and Nadab
And Gedor and Ahio and Zechariah and Mikloth.
And Mikloth begot Shimeam. And these also dwelt opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.
And Ner begot Kish; and Kish begot Saul; and Saul begot Jonathan and Malchishua and Abinadab and Esh-baal.
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begot Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon and Melech and Tahrea and Ahaz.
And Ahaz begot Jarah; and Jarah begot Alemeth and Azmaveth and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza;
And Moza begot Binea; and Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
And Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael and Sheariah and Obadiah and Hanan; these were the sons of Azel.