These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel across the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah opposite Suph, between Paran and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
It is eleven days' journey from Horeb to Kadesh-barnea by the way that leads to Mount Seir.
And in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that Jehovah had commanded him for them,
After he had slain Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who dwelt in Ashtaroth and in Edrei.
Across the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses set himself to expound this law, saying,
Jehovah our God spoke to us at Horeb, saying, You have dwelt long enough at this mountain.
Turn and set out, and go to the hill country of the Amorites and to all their neighboring peoples in the Arabah, in the hill country and in the lowland, and in the Negev and by the seacoast, the land of the Canaanites and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates.
See, I have set the land before you; go in and possess the land which Jehovah swore to give to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to them and to their seed after them.
And I spoke to you at that time, saying, I am not able to bear you alone.
Jehovah your God has multiplied you, and now today you are as the stars of heaven in multitude.
Jehovah, the God of your fathers, add to you a thousandfold ones like you and bless you as He has promised you!
How can I alone bear the trouble and burden of you and your strife?
Choose for yourselves men who are wise and prudent and well attested, according to your tribes, and I will make them your leaders.
And you answered me and said, The thing that you have said to do is good.
So I took the leaders of your tribes, men who were wise and well attested, and I made them leaders over you, captains over thousands and captains over hundreds and captains over fifties and captains over tens and officials for your tribes.
And I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the cases between your brothers, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the sojourner with him.
You shall not respect persons in judgment; you shall hear the small and the great alike. You shall not fear the face of man, for judgment is God's. And the case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me; and I will hear it.
And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do.
And we set out from Horeb, and we went through all that great and awesome wilderness, which you saw, on the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as Jehovah our God commanded us; and we came to Kadesh-barnea.
And I said to you, You have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which Jehovah our God is giving us.
See, Jehovah your God has set the land before you; go up, possess it, as Jehovah the God of your fathers has spoken to you. Do not fear, neither be dismayed.
Then all of you came near to me and said, Let us send men before us that they may search out the land for us and bring back to us word concerning the way by which we should go up and the cities into which we should go.
And the thing pleased me, so I took twelve men from among you, one for each tribe.
And they turned and went up into the hill country, and they came to the Valley of Eshcol; and they spied out the land.
And in their hands they took some of the fruit of the land, and they brought it down to us. And they brought word back to us and said, It is a good land which Jehovah our God is giving us.
Yet you would not go up. Rather you rebelled against the word of Jehovah your God;
And you murmured in your tents and said, Because Jehovah hates us, He has brought us out from the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites in order to destroy us.
Where shall we go up? Our brothers have made our hearts melt, saying, The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are big and fortified up to heaven; and furthermore we have seen the children of the Anakim there.
Then I said to you, Do not be terrified, neither be afraid of them.
Jehovah your God, who goes before you, He will fight for you according to all that He did for you in Egypt before your eyes,
And in the wilderness, where you have seen that Jehovah your God carried you, as a man carries his son, in all the way that you went until you came to this place.
Yet in spite of this word you did not believe in Jehovah your God,
Who went before you in the way, to seek out for you a place for you to camp, in the fire by night to show you by which way you should go and in the cloud by day.
And Jehovah heard the voice of your words, and He became furious and swore, saying,
Not one of these men, this evil generation, shall by any means see the good land which I have sworn to give to your fathers,
Except Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it. And to him I will give the land on which he has trodden, and to his children, because he has fully followed Jehovah.
With me also Jehovah was angry on your account, saying, You also shall not enter there;
Joshua the son of Nun, who attends to you, he shall enter there. Strengthen him, for it is he who will cause Israel to inherit it.
Moreover your little ones, who you said would be prey, and your children, who this day do not know good and evil, they shall enter there. And to them I will give it, and they will possess it.
But as for you, turn and set out into the wilderness by the way that leads to the Red Sea.
Then you answered and said to me, We have sinned against Jehovah; we ourselves will go up and fight according to all that Jehovah our God has commanded us. And you girded yourselves, every man with his weapons of war, and thought it a light thing to go up to the hill country.
And Jehovah said to me, Say to them, You shall not go up and fight, for I am not among you, so that you are not struck down before your enemies.
So I spoke to you, but you did not listen; rather, you rebelled against the word of Jehovah and went up presumptuously to the hill country.
And the Amorites who dwell in that hill country came out against you and chased you as bees do; and they beat you back in Seir as far as Hormah.
And you returned and wept before Jehovah; but Jehovah did not listen to your voice nor give ear to you.
So you remained in Kadesh for many days, as many days as you remained.