At that time Jehovah said to me, Cut for yourself two tablets of stone like the first ones, and come up to Me on the mountain; and make yourself an ark of wood.
And I will write upon the tablets the words which were on the first tablets, which you shattered; and you shall place them in the Ark.
So I made an ark of acacia wood and cut two tablets of stone like the first ones; and I went up to the mountain with the two tablets in my hand.
And He wrote upon the tablets as He had done the first writing, the Ten Commandments, which Jehovah spoke to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly; and Jehovah gave them to me.
Then I turned and came down from the mountain, and I placed the tablets in the Ark that I had made. And there they have been, as Jehovah commanded me.
(And the children of Israel set out from Beeroth Bene-jaakan for Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son served as priest in his place.
From there they set out for Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of waterbrooks.
At that time Jehovah separated the tribe of Levi to bear the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to minister to Him and bless in His name until this day.
Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; Jehovah is his inheritance, as Jehovah your God promised him.)
And I stayed on the mountain, as I had the first time, forty days and forty nights. And Jehovah listened to me in that instance as well; Jehovah would not destroy you.
And Jehovah said to me, Arise, take up the journey before the people so that they may enter and possess the land which I have sworn to their fathers to give them.
And now, O Israel, what does Jehovah your God ask of you except that you fear Jehovah your God so that you would walk in all His ways and love Him and serve Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul;
So that you would keep the commandments of Jehovah and His statutes, which I am commanding you today, for your good.
Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens belong to Jehovah your God, the earth and all that is in it.
But on your fathers Jehovah set His affection to love them and to choose their seed after them, that is, you above all the peoples, as it is this day.
Circumcise then the foreskin of your heart, and do not be stiff-necked any longer;
For it is Jehovah your God who is the God of gods and the Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who does not regard persons and does not take bribes;
He executes justice for the orphan and the widow, and He loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing.
Therefore love the sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
You shall fear Jehovah your God; Him shall you serve and to Him shall you hold fast and by His name shall you swear.
He is your praise and He is your God, who has done these great and awesome things for you, which your eyes have seen.
Your fathers went down into Egypt as seventy souls; and now Jehovah your God has made you as the stars of heaven in multitude.