Therefore you shall love Jehovah your God and keep His charge and His statutes and His ordinances and His commandments always.
And realize today that I am speaking not with your sons, who do not know and who have not seen the discipline of Jehovah your God, His greatness, His mighty hand and His outstretched arm;
And His signs and works, which He did in the midst of Egypt against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and against all his land;
And what He did to Egypt's forces, to their horses and to their chariots, when He caused the water of the Red Sea to flow over them while they were pursuing you; and Jehovah made them perish to this day;
And what He did for you in the wilderness until you came to this place;
And what He did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben, when the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up and their households and their tents and all their substance that went with them, from the midst of all Israel.
But it is your eyes that have seen all the great work of Jehovah which He did.
Therefore you shall keep the whole commandment which I am commanding you today so that you may be strong and that you may go in and possess the land into which you are crossing over to possess,
And so that you may extend your days upon the ground which Jehovah swore to your fathers, to give to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.
For the land which you are entering in to possess is not like the land of Egypt, from which you came forth, where you used to sow your seed and water by foot as in a vegetable garden.
But the land into which you are crossing over to possess is a land of mountains and valleys; by virtue of heaven's rain, it drinks in water.
It is a land which Jehovah your God cares for; always the eyes of Jehovah your God are upon it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year.
And if you are certain to listen to My commandments, which I am commanding you today, to love Jehovah your God and serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul,
I will give rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the late rain, so that you may gather your grain and your new wine and your fresh oil.
And I will put grass in your field for your cattle, and you will eat and be satisfied.
Be careful lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and bow down to them,
And the anger of Jehovah burn against you and He shut up heaven, so that there is no rain and the earth does not yield its produce and you perish quickly from off the good land which Jehovah is giving you.
Therefore you shall lay these words of mine on your heart and on your soul; and you shall bind them on your hand as a sign, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes;
And you shall teach them to your children, speaking about them when you sit in your house and when you journey on the way, and when you lie down and when you rise up;
And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates;
That your days may be multiplied, as well as the days of your children, upon the land which Jehovah swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the days of heaven are above the earth.
For if you are certain to keep all this commandment which I am commanding you to do, to love Jehovah your God, to walk in all His ways and hold fast to Him,
Jehovah will dispossess all these nations from before you, and you will dispossess nations greater and mightier than you.
Every place on which the sole of your foot treads will be yours; from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even to the farmost sea will be your territory.
No man will be able to stand against you; Jehovah your God will put the dread and fear of you upon all the land on which you tread, as He has spoken to you.
See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse:
The blessing, if you listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today;
And the curse, if you do not listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God and you turn aside from the way which I am commanding you today, to go after other gods whom you have not known.
And when Jehovah your God brings you into the land which you are entering to possess, you shall put the blessing upon Mount Gerizim and the curse upon Mount Ebal.
Indeed they are across the Jordan beyond the western road in the land of the Canaanites, who dwell in the Arabah before Gilgal beside the terebinths of Moreh.
For you are about to cross over the Jordan to enter and possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving you; and you will possess it and dwell in it.
Therefore be certain to do all the statutes and ordinances that I am setting before you today.