The Levitical priests and the whole tribe of Levi shall have no portion or inheritance with Israel; they shall eat Jehovah's offerings by fire and His inheritance.
Thus they shall have no inheritance in the midst of their brothers; Jehovah is their inheritance, as He has promised them.
And this shall be the priests' rightful due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether an ox or a sheep: They shall give the priest the shoulder, the two cheeks, and the stomach.
You shall give him the firstfruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your fresh oil, and the first shearing of your sheep;
For Jehovah your God has chosen him and his sons out of all your tribes to stand and minister in Jehovah's name always.
And if a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel, where he sojourns, and comes according to all his soul's desire to the place which Jehovah will choose,
He shall minister in the name of Jehovah his God, like all his brothers, the Levites, who stand there before Jehovah.
They shall eat equal portions, besides the proceeds from the sale of his father's estate.
When you enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, you shall not learn to do things according to the abominations of those nations.
There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or daughter pass through fire; anyone who performs divination, practices soothsaying, or interprets omens; or anyone who employs sorcery
Or casts spells; or anyone who consults a spirit of the dead or a familiar spirit or inquires of the dead;
For everyone who does these things is an abomination to Jehovah; and on account of these abominations Jehovah your God is dispossessing them from before you.
You shall be blameless toward Jehovah your God.
For these nations whom you are dispossessing listen to those who practice soothsaying and to those who perform divination, but Jehovah your God has not allowed you to do so.
A Prophet will Jehovah your God raise up for you from your midst, from among your brothers, like me; you shall listen to Him.
This is according to all that you asked of Jehovah your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear any more of the voice of Jehovah my God, and let me not see this great fire any longer, lest I die.
And Jehovah said to me, They have done well in what they have spoken.
A Prophet will I raise up for them from the midst of their brothers like you; and I will put My words in His mouth, and He will speak to them all that I command Him.
And the man who will not listen to My words which He will speak in My name, I Myself will require it from him.
But the prophet who speaks a word presumptuously in My name, which I did not command him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die.
And if you say in your heart, How shall we know the word that Jehovah has not spoken?
When a prophet speaks in the name of Jehovah and the thing does not happen nor come about, that is the thing which Jehovah has not spoken. The prophet has spoken presumptuously; you shall not be afraid of him.