When Jehovah your God cuts off the nations whose land Jehovah your God is giving you and you dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses,
You shall set apart three cities for yourself in the midst of your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you to possess.
You shall survey the distances for yourself and divide into three parts the territory of your land, which Jehovah your God will give you as an inheritance, so that every manslayer may flee there.
And this shall be the case of the manslayer who flees there and lives: He who slays his neighbor without intent and did not hate him previously--
As when a man goes with his neighbor into the forest to cut wood, and his hand goes to cut the tree with an axe, and the iron axehead slips off the handle and hits his neighbor so that he dies--he shall flee to one of these cities and live;
Lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, while his heart rages, and he overtake him because the distance is long and slay him; though he is not worthy of death, for he did not hate him previously.
Therefore I am commanding you, saying, You shall set apart three cities for yourself.
And if Jehovah your God enlarges your territory, as He swore to your fathers, and gives you all the land which He promised to give to your fathers;
If you are certain to do all this commandment which I am commanding you today, to love Jehovah your God and to walk in His ways always; then you shall add three more cities for yourself, besides these three,
That innocent blood may not be shed in the midst of your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, and guilt for blood be upon you.
But if a man hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him, and he rises up against him and slays him so that he dies, and he flees to one of these cities;
Then the elders of his city shall send men and take him from there and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, so that he may die.
Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall remove the guilt of innocent blood from Israel that it may go well with you.
You shall not move your neighbor's boundary marker, which your ancestors have set, in your inheritance, which you will inherit in the land which Jehovah your God is giving you to possess.
One witness only shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity or for any sin, in any sin which he has committed; at the word of two witnesses or at the word of three witnesses shall a matter be established.
If a malicious witness rises up against a man to testify against him of wrongdoing,
The two men who have the dispute shall stand before Jehovah, before the priests and the judges who are serving in those days.
And the judges shall investigate thoroughly; and if indeed the witness is a false witness, if he has testified falsely against his brother,
You shall do to him as he intended to do to his brother. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
And those who remain will hear and will fear and will never again do anything like this evil thing in your midst.
And your eye shall not pity: a life for a life, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot.