And we turned and set out for the wilderness by the way that leads to the Red Sea, as Jehovah spoke to me; and we circled Mount Seir for many days.
Then Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
You have circled this mountain long enough; turn northward,
And command the people, saying, You are about to pass through the territory of your brothers the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir; and they will be afraid of you. Take careful heed to yourselves therefore;
Do not engage them, for I will not give you any of their land, not even as much as a footstep; for I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
You shall buy food from them with money, that you may eat; and you shall also obtain water from them with money, that you may drink.
For Jehovah your God has blessed you in all your doings; He knows your journeying through this great wilderness. These forty years Jehovah your God has been with you; you have not lacked a thing.
So we passed on from our brothers the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, away from the way of the Arabah, away from Elath and from Ezion-geber; and we turned and passed on by the way that leads to the wilderness of Moab.
And Jehovah said to me, Do not harass Moab, nor engage them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land as a possession; for to the children of Lot I have given Ar as a possession.
(The Emim dwelt there before that, a people great and numerous and as tall as the Anakim;
They were considered Rephaim, as were the Anakim, but the Moabites called them Emim.
The Horites also dwelt in Seir before that, but the children of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them; and they dwelt there in their place, as Israel did with the land of their possession, which Jehovah gave to them.)
Now rise up and cross over the brook Zered. And we crossed over the brook Zered.
And the time that we spent in going from Kadesh-barnea until we crossed over the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war was consumed from the midst of the camp, as Jehovah had sworn to them.
Moreover the hand of Jehovah was against them to purge them from the midst of the camp until they were consumed.
So when all the men of war were consumed from the midst of the people and dead,
Then Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
You are to pass through the territory of Moab, through Ar, today.
And when you come near to the children of Ammon, do not harass them, nor engage them, for I will not give any of the land of the children of Ammon to you as a possession; for I have given it to the children of Lot as a possession.
(It was also considered a land of Rephaim; Rephaim formerly dwelt in it. But the Ammonites call them Zamzummim,
A people great and numerous and as tall as the Anakim. Yet Jehovah destroyed them from before them, and they dispossessed them and dwelt there in their place;
As He did for the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites from before them. And they dispossessed them and have dwelt there in their place to this day.
And the Avvim, who dwell in the villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim, who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and dwelt there in their place.)
Rise up; set out and cross over the valley of the Arnon. See, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, the king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to possess it, and engage him in battle.
Today I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the peoples under all heaven, who will hear the report of you and will tremble and quake because of you.
Then I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon the king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
Let me pass through your land. Only on the road I will go; I will not turn to the right or to the left.
You will sell me food for money, that I may eat; and you will give me water for money, that I may drink; only let me pass through on foot--
As the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites, who dwell in Ar, did for me--until I cross over the Jordan into the land which Jehovah our God is giving us.
But Sihon the king of Heshbon would not let us pass through his land, for Jehovah your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate for the purpose of delivering him into your hand, as he is today.
And Jehovah said to me, See, I have begun to deliver Sihon and his land up before you. Begin to possess it that you may occupy his land.
Then Sihon came out to meet us, he and all his people, for battle at Jahaz.
And Jehovah our God delivered him up before us, and we slew him and his sons and all his people.
And we captured all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed every city--men, women, and children; we left no survivors.
We took only the cattle as our plunder, as well as the spoil of the cities which we captured.
From Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and from the city which is in the valley, even to Gilead, there was not a town too high for us; Jehovah our God delivered them all up before us.
But you did not go near the land of the children of Ammon, all along the river Jabbok, nor the cities of the hill country, nor any place that Jehovah our God commanded us not to.