You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep straying and neglect them; you must return them to your brother.
And if your brother is not nearby you, or if you do not know who he is, you shall bring it to your house. And it shall be with you until your brother demands it; then you shall return it to him.
And thus shall you do with his donkey; and thus shall you do with his clothing; and thus shall you do with any of your brother's lost things, which he has lost and you have found. You may not neglect them.
You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen by the way and neglect them; you must lift them up with him.
A woman shall not put on a man's clothing, nor shall a man wear a woman's garment; for everyone who does these things is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
If you happen to come upon a bird's nest in the way, in any tree or on the ground, and in it are young birds or eggs, and the mother sitting upon the young birds or upon the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young.
You must let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you and that you may extend your days.
When you build a new house, you shall make a low wall around the edge of your roof so that you do not put the guilt of blood on your house if someone falls from it.
You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the full produce, the seed which you sow, be forfeited to the sanctuary, as well as the increase of the vineyard.
You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
You shall not wear clothing of mixed materials, of wool and linen together.
You shall make twisted cords upon the four corners of your garment with which you cover yourself.
If a man takes a wife and goes in unto her, and later despises her,
And charges her with shameful deeds and spreads an evil report about her, and says, I took this woman, and when I drew near to her, I did not find her to be a virgin;
Then the girl's father and her mother shall take and bring forth the evidence of the girl's virginity to the elders of the city at the gate.
And the girl's father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he despised her;
And now he charges her with shameful deeds, saying, I did not find your daughter to be a virgin. But this is the evidence of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city.
Then the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him;
And they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver and give it to the girl's father, for he spread an evil report against a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife; he may not send her away all his days.
But if this claim is true--the girl was not found to be a virgin--
They shall bring the girl out to the entrance of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones so that she dies; for she has done folly in Israel by committing fornication in her father's house. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, both of them shall die, the man who was lying with the woman and the woman. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from Israel.
If a girl who is a virgin is engaged to a man, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her;
You shall bring both of them out to the gate of that city and stone them with stones so that they die, the girl because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he humbled his neighbor's wife. Thus you shall utterly remove the evil from your midst.
But if the man finds the engaged girl in the field, and the man overpowers her and lies with her, only the man who was lying with her shall die.
But to the girl you shall not do anything; there is no sin worthy of death with the girl; for as it is when a man rises up against his neighbor and slays him, so is this matter.
For he found her in the field; the engaged girl cried out and there was no one to save her.
If a man finds a girl who is a virgin and is not engaged, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are found;
The man who was lying with her shall give fifty shekels of silver to the girl's father. And she shall be his wife, because he humbled her; he may not send her away all his days.
A man shall not take his father's wife, so that he does not uncover the skirt of his father's garment.