And when you enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you possess it and dwell in it,
You shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground which you shall bring from your land, which Jehovah your God is giving you, and you shall put it in a basket and go to the place where Jehovah your God will choose to cause His name to dwell.
And you shall go to the priest who is serving in those days and say to him, I declare to Jehovah your God today that I have entered the land which Jehovah swore to our fathers to give us.
And the priest shall take the basket from your hand and place it before the altar of Jehovah your God.
And you shall respond and say before Jehovah your God, A perishing Aramaean was my father; and he went down to Egypt and sojourned there, few in number; and he became there a great and mighty and numerous nation.
And the Egyptians ill-treated us and afflicted us and put hard work upon us;
But we cried out to Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction and our labor and our oppression.
And Jehovah brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and by great terror and by signs and wonders.
And He has brought us to this place and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
And now I have just brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which You, O Jehovah, have given me. And you shall place it before Jehovah your God and bow down before Jehovah your God.
And you and the Levite and the sojourner in your midst shall rejoice in all the good which Jehovah your God has given to you and to your household.
When you have finished giving all the tithes of your produce in the third year, the year of the tithe, you shall give it to the Levite, the sojourner, the orphan, and the widow, that they may eat within your gates and be satisfied.
And you shall say before Jehovah your God, I have removed what is holy from out of my house, and I have also given it to the Levite and the sojourner, to the orphan and the widow, according to Your whole commandment, which You have commanded me; I have not transgressed any of Your commandments and I have not forgotten them.
I have not eaten any of it in my sorrow, nor have I removed any of it while I was unclean, nor have I given any of it to the dead. I have listened to the voice of Jehovah my God; I have done according to all that You have commanded me.
Look down from Your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless Your people Israel and the ground which You have given us, as You swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
This day Jehovah your God is commanding you to do these statutes and ordinances; therefore you shall keep them and do them with all your heart and with all your soul.
It is Jehovah whom you have today declared to be your God and that you will walk in His ways and keep His statutes and His commandments and His ordinances, and will listen to His voice.
And it is Jehovah who has today declared you to be a people for His personal treasure, even as He promised you; and that you will keep all His commandments;
And that He will set you high above all the nations which He has made, for praise and for a name and for honor; and that you will be a holy people to Jehovah your God, as He has spoken.