And Moses, with the elders of Israel, commanded the people, saying, Keep the whole commandment which I am commanding you today.
And in the day when you cross over the Jordan into the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, you shall erect for yourself large stones; and you shall coat them with plaster.
And you shall write upon them all the words of this law when you cross over, in order that you may enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as Jehovah, the God of your fathers, promised to you.
And when you cross over the Jordan, you shall erect these stones, concerning which I am commanding you today, on Mount Ebal; and you shall coat them with plaster.
And you shall build there an altar to Jehovah your God, an altar of stones; you shall not use an iron tool upon them;
With unhewn stones you shall build the altar of Jehovah your God. Then you shall offer up burnt offerings upon it to Jehovah your God;
And you shall sacrifice peace offerings and eat there, and you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God.
Then you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very clearly.
And Moses, with the Levitical priests, spoke to all Israel, saying, Be silent and hear, O Israel; this day you have become the people of Jehovah your God.
Therefore you shall listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, and do His commandments and His statutes, which I am commanding you today.
And Moses commanded the people on that day, saying,
These shall stand upon Mount Gerizim to bless the people when you cross over the Jordan: Simeon and Levi and Judah and Issachar and Joseph and Benjamin;
And these shall stand upon Mount Ebal for cursing: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
And the Levites shall respond and say to all the men of Israel with a loud voice,
Cursed is the man who makes an idol or a molten image, an abomination to Jehovah, the work of the craftsman's hands, and puts it in a secret place. And all the people shall answer and say, Amen.
Cursed is he who dishonors his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who moves his neighbor's boundary marker. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who leads astray a blind man on the way. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who distorts justice due a sojourner, an orphan, or a widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who lies with his father's wife, for he uncovers the skirt of his father's garment. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who lies with any animal. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who lies with his sister, his father's daughter or his mother's daughter. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who slays his neighbor secretly. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who takes payment to slay someone of innocent blood. And all the people shall say, Amen.
Cursed is he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them. And all the people shall say, Amen.