Then we turned and went up on the way that leads to Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us, he and all his people, for battle at Edrei.
But Jehovah said to me, Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon the king of the Amorites, who was dwelling in Heshbon.
And Jehovah our God also gave Og the king of Bashan, as well as all his people, into our hand; and we slew them until there was no survivor left to him.
And we captured all his cities at that time; there was not a town that we did not take from them: sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
All of these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides a great many rural villages.
And we utterly destroyed them as we had done to Sihon the king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every city--men, women, and children.
But all the cattle and the spoil of the cities we took as our plunder.
So at that time we took the land from the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were across the Jordan, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon
(The Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir),
All the cities of the Plateau and all Gilead and all Bashan, as far as Salcah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
(For only Og the king of Bashan was left of the remnant of the Rephaim. His bedstead, a bedstead of iron, is indeed now in Rabbah of the children of Ammon. Its length is nine cubits and its width four cubits, according to the cubit of a man.)
So we possessed this land at that time. From Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead and its cities, I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites.
And the rest of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, all the region of Argob. (All that portion of Bashan is called the land of the Rephaim.
Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites; and he called it, that is, Bashan, after his own name, Havvoth-jair, as it is to this day.)
And to Machir I gave Gilead.
And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave the region from Gilead even as far as the valley of the Arnon, the middle of the valley being the border, as far as the river Jabbok, the border of the children of Ammon;
And the Arabah, with the Jordan as a border, from Chinnereth even as far as the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, at the foot of the slopes of Pisgah on the east.
And I charged you at that time, saying, Jehovah your God has given you this land that you may possess it; all the men of valor shall cross over armed before your brothers, the children of Israel.
Only your wives and your little ones and your livestock--I know that you have vast livestock--shall remain in your cities, which I have given you,
Until Jehovah gives rest to your brothers as He has to you, and they also possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving them across the Jordan, and you return, each man to his possession which I have given you.
And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Yours are the eyes that have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to these two kings; so will Jehovah do to all the kingdoms into which you are about to cross over.
Do not fear them, for it is Jehovah your God who is fighting for you.
And I pleaded with Jehovah at that time, saying,
O Lord Jehovah, You have begun to show Your servant Your greatness and Your mighty hand. For what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do things like what You have done and things like Your mighty deeds?
Let me please cross over and see the good land that is across the Jordan, this fine hill country and Lebanon.
But Jehovah was infuriated with me on your account and did not listen to me. And Jehovah said to me, Enough! Speak no more to Me about this matter.
Go up to the top of Pisgah; and lift up your eyes to the west and to the north and to the south and to the east; and see it with your eyes, for you shall not cross over this Jordan.
But charge Joshua, and strengthen and encourage him, for it is he who will cross over before this people and cause them to inherit the land which you will see.
And we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor.