And Moses called all Israel and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I am speaking in your hearing today, and learn them and keep them, so that you may do them.
Jehovah our God made a covenant with us at Horeb.
Not with our fathers did Jehovah make this covenant, but with us, we who are all here alive today.
Face to face Jehovah spoke with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire--
I was standing between Jehovah and you at that time to declare to you the word of Jehovah, for you were afraid because of the fire and did not go up to the mountain--saying,
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the slave house;
You shall have no other gods before Me.
You shall not make for yourself an idol, the form of anything that is in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the water beneath the earth.
You shall not bow down to them, and you shall not serve them; for I, Jehovah your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and to the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me,
Yet showing lovingkindness to thousands of generations of those who love Me and keep My commandments.
You shall not take the name of Jehovah your God in vain, for Jehovah will not hold guiltless him who takes His name in vain.
Keep the Sabbath day so as to sanctify it, as Jehovah your God has commanded you.
Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
But the seventh day is a Sabbath to Jehovah your God; you shall not do any work, you nor your son nor your daughter nor your male servant nor your female servant nor your ox nor your donkey nor any of your cattle nor the sojourner with you who is within your gates, so that your male servant and your female servant may rest as you do.
And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt and that Jehovah your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm; hence, Jehovah your God commanded you to hold the Sabbath day.
Honor your father and your mother, as Jehovah your God has commanded you, that your days may be extended and that it may be well with you upon the land which Jehovah your God is giving you.
You shall not kill;
Neither shall you commit adultery;
Neither shall you steal;
Neither shall you testify as a vain witness against your neighbor;
Neither shall you covet your neighbor's wife, nor shall you desire your neighbor's house, his field, or his male servant or his female servant, his ox or his donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.
These words Jehovah spoke to all your congregation on the mountain from the midst of the fire, the cloud, and the deep darkness, with a great voice; and He added no more. And He wrote them upon two tablets of stone and gave them to me.
And when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness, while the mountain burned with fire, you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes and your elders,
And said, Jehovah our God has just shown us His glory and His greatness, and His voice we have heard from the midst of the fire; today we have seen that God speaks with man and yet he lives.
Therefore why should we die now? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of Jehovah our God any longer, we will die.
For who is there among all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire, as we have, and has lived?
You go near and hear all that Jehovah our God says; then you will speak to us all that Jehovah our God speaks to you, and we will hear and do.
And Jehovah heard the sound of your words while you spoke to me; and Jehovah said to me, I have heard the sound of the words of this people which they have spoken to you; they have done well in all that they have spoken.
Oh that this heart of theirs would be in them always to fear Me and keep all My commandments so that it may go well with them and with their children forever!
Go, say to them, Return to your tents.
But you, stand here by Me that I may speak to you the whole commandment, and the statutes and the ordinances, which you will teach them to do in the land which I am giving them to possess.
Keep them therefore so that you may do them, even as Jehovah your God has commanded you; you shall not turn aside to the right or to the left.
You shall walk in all the way that Jehovah your God has commanded you, so that you may live and that it may go well with you and that you may extend your days in the land which you will possess.