When Jehovah your God brings you into the land which you are about to enter to possess, and clears away many nations from before you--the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than you--
And Jehovah your God delivers them up before you and you defeat them, you shall utterly destroy them; you shall make no covenant with them, nor shall you show them any favor.
And you shall not make marriage alliances with them: Your daughters you shall not give to their sons, and their daughters you shall not take for your sons;
For they will draw your sons away from following after Me to serve other gods, and the anger of Jehovah will burn against you and He will quickly destroy you.
But you shall deal with them in this way: Their altars you shall tear down, their pillars you shall shatter, their Asherahs you shall hew down, and their idols you shall burn with fire.
For you are a holy people to Jehovah your God; it is you whom Jehovah your God has chosen from among all the peoples which are upon the face of the earth to be a people for His personal treasure.
It was not because you were more numerous than all the peoples that Jehovah has set His affection on you and has chosen you, for you were the fewest of all the peoples;
Rather, because Jehovah loved you and because He would keep the oath which He swore to your fathers, Jehovah has brought you out with a mighty hand and ransomed you from the slave house, from the hand of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt.
Know therefore that it is Jehovah your God who is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and lovingkindness to the thousandth generation with those who love Him and keep His commandments,
But repays directly those who hate Him by destroying them. He will not be slow toward him who hates Him; He will repay him directly.
Therefore you shall keep the commandment, and the statutes and the ordinances, which I am commanding you today to do.
And it will be that because you listen to these ordinances, and keep them and do them, Jehovah your God will keep with you the covenant and the lovingkindness which He swore to your fathers.
And He will love you and bless you and multiply you; He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your fresh oil, the offspring of your cattle and the young of your flock, on the land which He swore to your fathers to give you.
You will be more blessed than all other peoples; there will not be any barren male or female among you or among your animals.
And Jehovah will remove every sickness from you, and none of the evil illnesses of Egypt, which you know about, will He put upon you; but He will give them to all who hate you.
And you shall devour all the peoples which Jehovah your God is giving you; your eye shall not pity them, nor shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare to you.
If you say in your heart, These nations are greater than I, how will I be able to dispossess them?
You shall not be afraid of them; you must remember what Jehovah your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt,
The great trials that your eyes saw, and the signs and the wonders, and the mighty hand and the outstretched arm with which Jehovah your God brought you out; so will Jehovah your God do to all the peoples whom you are afraid of.
Furthermore, Jehovah your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left and those who hide themselves from you are destroyed.
You shall not be terrified of them, for Jehovah your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God.
And Jehovah your God will clear away these nations from before you little by little; you will not be able to consume them immediately, lest the beasts of the field multiply against you.
But Jehovah your God will deliver them up before you and rout them utterly until they are destroyed.
And He will deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall destroy their name from under heaven; no man will be able to stand against you until you destroy them.
The idols of their gods you shall burn with fire; you shall not desire the silver or gold upon them, nor take it for yourself, lest you be ensnared by it; for it is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
And you shall not bring an abomination into your house, lest you become a cursed thing like it; you shall utterly detest it and utterly abhor it, for it is a cursed thing.