The whole commandment which I am commanding you today, you shall keep and do, so that you may live and multiply, and enter and possess the land which Jehovah swore to your fathers.
And you shall remember all the way that Jehovah your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness in order to humble you and test you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not.
And He humbled you and let you go hungry and fed you the manna, which you had never known nor your fathers had ever known, so that He might make you know that man lives not by bread alone, but that man lives by everything that proceeds out from the mouth of Jehovah.
Your clothing did not wear out from upon you, nor did your foot swell these forty years.
Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so Jehovah your God was disciplining you.
Therefore keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, walking in His ways and fearing Him.
For Jehovah your God is bringing you to a good land, a land of waterbrooks, of springs and of fountains, flowing forth in valleys and in mountains;
A land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees with oil and of honey;
A land in which you will eat bread without scarcity; you will not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and from whose mountains you can mine copper.
And you shall eat and be satisfied, and you shall bless Jehovah your God for the good land which He has given you.
Be careful lest you forget Jehovah your God by not keeping His commandments and His ordinances and His statutes, which I am commanding you today;
Lest when you have eaten and are satisfied, and have built fine houses and dwell in them,
And your herd and your flock have multiplied, and your silver and your gold have multiplied, and all that you have has multiplied,
Your heart be lifted up and you forget Jehovah your God, Him who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the slave house;
Who led you through the great and awesome wilderness, with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water; who brought forth water for you out of flint rock;
Who fed you manna in the wilderness, which your fathers had never known, that He might humble you and that He might test you in order to do good for you in the end;
And you say in your heart, My strength and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth.
But you shall remember Jehovah your God, for it is He who gives you strength to gain wealth, so that He may establish His covenant, which He swore to your fathers, as it is this day.
And if you forget Jehovah your God at all and go after other gods and serve them and bow down to them, I testify against you today that you will surely perish.
Like the nations which Jehovah is about to destroy before your face, so you will perish, because you would not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.