But King Solomon loved many foreign women in addition to Pharaoh's daughter--Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women,
From among the nations concerning which Jehovah had said to the children of Israel, You shall not go among them, nor shall they come among you, for they will surely turn your heart after their gods. Solomon clung to these in love.
And he had seven hundred princess wives and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned his heart away.
And when Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart after other gods; and his heart was not perfect toward Jehovah his God like the heart of David his father.
And Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and after Milcom the detestable thing of the Ammonites.
And Solomon did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and did not fully follow Jehovah as David his father had done.
Then Solomon built a high place to Chemosh the detestable thing of Moab in the mountain that is before Jerusalem and to Molech the detestable thing of the children of Ammon.
And so he did for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and offered sacrifices to their gods.
So Jehovah became angry with Solomon because his heart turned away from Jehovah the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice,
And who had commanded him concerning this very matter, not to go after other gods; but he did not keep that which Jehovah had commanded.
And Jehovah said to Solomon, Because you have done this and have not kept My covenant and My statutes, which I commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom away from you and give it to your servant.
However I will not do it in your days, because of David your father; I will tear it out of your son's hand.
But I will not tear the whole kingdom away from you; I will give one tribe to your son because of David My servant and because of Jerusalem, which I have chosen.
And Jehovah raised up an adversary to Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of the king's seed in Edom.
Now when David was in Edom and Joab the captain of the army went up to bury the slain, he struck down all the males in Edom;
For Joab and all Israel remained there for six months, until he had cut down every male in Edom.
But Hadad fled, he and some Edomite men from among his father's servants with him, and went into Egypt; and Hadad was a young boy then.
Thus they arose from Midian and went to Paran, and they took men from Paran with them and went to Egypt, to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, who gave him a house and appointed him a portion of food and gave him land.
And Hadad found so much favor in the sight of Pharaoh that Pharaoh gave him the sister of his wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen, as his wife.
And the sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, and Tahpenes weaned him in Pharaoh's house, and Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among Pharaoh's sons.
And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the captain of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart that I may go to my own land.
But Pharaoh said to him, But what have you lacked while with me that now you are seeking to go to your own land? And he said, Nothing; only let me depart.
And God raised up another adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord, Hadadezer the king of Zobah.
And he gathered men to himself and became the captain of the band when David slew those of Zobah; and they went to Damascus and dwelt there; and they reigned in Damascus.
And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon in addition to the evil that Hadad did; and he abhorred Israel and reigned over Syria.
And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, a servant of Solomon, whose mother's name was Zeruah, also a widow, lifted up his hand against the king.
And this was the reason he lifted up his hand against the king: Solomon was building the Millo, closing up the breach of the city of David his father.
And the man Jeroboam was an able man; and Solomon saw that the young man was industrious, so he set him over all the forced labor of the house of Joseph.
And at that time Jeroboam went forth from Jerusalem, and the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the way. And Ahijah was wearing a new garment, and the two of them were alone in the field.
And Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him and tore it into twelve pieces.
And he said to Jeroboam, Take ten pieces for yourself; for thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, I am now tearing the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon and giving the ten tribes to you
(But the one tribe will be his because of My servant David and because of Jerusalem, the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel),
Because they have forsaken Me and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and Chemosh the god of Moab and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon and have not walked in My ways by doing what is upright in My sight and by keeping My statutes and My ordinances as David his father did.
But I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him leader all the days of his life because of David My servant, whom I chose and who kept My commandments and My statutes.
Yet I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand and will give it to you, that is, the ten tribes;
And to his son I will give one tribe, that My servant David may have a lamp always before Me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen to put My name.
And I will take you, and you will reign according to all that your soul desires; and you will be king over Israel.
And if you listen to all that I command you and walk in My ways and do what is upright in My sight by keeping My statutes and My commandments, as David My servant did, I will be with you and will build you a sure house, as I built for David; and I will give you Israel.
And I will afflict the seed of David because of this, but not forever.
Solomon therefore sought to kill Jeroboam, but Jeroboam rose up and fled into Egypt to Shishak the king of Egypt; and he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
And the rest of the acts of Solomon and all that he did as well as his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?
And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.
And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.