And the word of Jehovah came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
Because I exalted you out of the dust and made you a leader over My people Israel, yet you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have caused My people Israel to sin, thereby provoking Me to anger by their sins;
I am now sweeping up after Baasha and after his house, and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
Him of Baasha who dies in the city, the dogs will eat; and him who dies in the field, the birds of heaven will eat.
And the rest of the acts of Baasha and what he did and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
And Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried in Tirzah. And Elah his son reigned in his place.
Moreover through the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani the word of Jehovah came against Baasha and against his house, both because of all the evil that he did in the sight of Jehovah, provoking Him to anger with the work of his hands and by being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he struck it down.
In the twenty-sixth year of Asa the king of Judah Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah for two years.
And his servant Zimri, the captain of half his chariots, conspired against him. While he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah,
Zimri came in and struck him down and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa the king of Judah; and he reigned in his place.
And as soon as he began to reign, just as he sat on his throne, he struck down all the house of Baasha; there was not a male left to him, neither kinsman nor friend.
Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke against Baasha through Jehu the prophet,
Because of all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they committed and by which they caused Israel to sin, thereby provoking Jehovah the God of Israel to anger with their idols.
And the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
In the twenty-seventh year of Asa the king of Judah Zimri began to reign for seven days in Tirzah. And the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.
And when the people who were encamped there heard it said, Zimri has conspired and even struck down the king, all Israel made Omri, the captain of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp.
And Omri went up, and all Israel with him, from Gibbethon, and they besieged Tirzah.
And when Zimri saw that the city had been taken, he went up to the citadel of the king's house and burned the king's house over him with fire and died,
Because of his sins that he committed by doing what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, walking in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which he did, causing Israel to sin.
And the rest of the acts of Zimri and his conspiracy that he conspired, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
At that time the people of Israel were divided into two: Half of the people went after Tibni the son of Ginath, making him king, and half after Omri.
But the people who followed Omri prevailed over the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath; and Tibni died, and Omri began to reign.
In the thirty-first year of Asa the king of Judah Omri began to reign over Israel for twelve years; he reigned six years in Tirzah.
And he bought the hill of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver; and he built upon the hill and called the name of the city that he built Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill.
And Omri did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah and was more evil than all who were before him.
And he went in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sin by which he caused Israel to sin, thereby provoking Jehovah the God of Israel to anger with their idols.
And the rest of the acts of Omri that he did and his might that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
And Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria. And Ahab his son reigned in his place.
And Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa the king of Judah. And Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years.
And Ahab the son of Omri did what was evil in the sight of Jehovah, more than all who were before him.
And as if it were a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, he took as his wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal the king of the Sidonians; and he went and served Baal and worshipped him.
And he raised up an altar to Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.
And Ahab made the Asherah. And Ahab did more to provoke Jehovah the God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel who had been before him.
In his days Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho. He laid its foundations at the cost of Abiram his firstborn, and he set up its gates at the cost of Segub his youngest son, according to the word of Jehovah, which He spoke through Joshua the son of Nun.