And Elijah the Tishbite, from among the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, As Jehovah the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain during these years, except by my word.
And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
Go from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is before the Jordan.
And you shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.
And he went and did according to the word of Jehovah; that is, he went and stayed by the brook Cherith, which is before the Jordan.
And the ravens would bring him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening; and he drank from the brook.
Then after a while the brook dried up, for there had been no rain in the land.
And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
Rise up and go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and stay there. I have just commanded a widow there to keep you fed.
And he rose up and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the entrance of the city, a widow was there gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, I beg you, bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.
And she went to get it. Then he called to her and said, I beg you, bring me a piece of bread in your hand.
And she said, As Jehovah your God lives, I have nothing baked, but only a handful of meal in a barrel and a little oil in a jar; and I am now gathering a few sticks that I may go and prepare it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die.
And Elijah said to her, Do not fear. Go, do as you have said. But make me a little cake out of it first, and bring it out to me; then make something for yourself and for your son afterward.
For thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, The barrel of meal will not give out, nor will the jar of oil fail, until the day that Jehovah sends rain upon the face of the earth.
And she went and did according to the word of Elijah. And she and he and her house ate for many days.
The barrel of meal did not give out, nor did the jar of oil fail, according to the word of Jehovah, which He had spoken through Elijah.
Then after these things the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill; and his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him.
And she said to Elijah, What have I done to you, O man of God, that you have come to me to recall my iniquity and kill my son?
And he said to her, Bring me your son. And he took him out of her bosom and carried him up into the upper chamber where he was staying, and he laid him upon his own bed.
And he cried to Jehovah and said, Jehovah, my God, have You also brought evil upon the widow, to whom I am a guest, by slaying her son?
And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to Jehovah and said, Jehovah, my God, I beg You, let this child's soul come into him again!
And Jehovah listened to the voice of Elijah; and the child's soul came into him again, and he lived.
And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house and gave him to his mother. And Elijah said, See, your son is alive.
And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that you are a man of God and that the word of Jehovah in your mouth is truth.