And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done and all about how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.
And Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, The gods do so to me and even more, if by this time tomorrow I do not make your life like the life of one of them!
And because he was afraid, he rose up and went away for his life; and he came to Beer-sheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his attendant there.
And he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a certain broom shrub; and he requested for himself that he might die and said, It is enough; now, O Jehovah, take my life, for I am no better than my fathers.
And he lay down and slept under the broom shrub. And suddenly an angel touched him and said to him, Rise up and eat.
And he looked, and there at his head was a cake, baked on hot stones, and a jar of water. And he ate and drank, and lay down again.
And the angel of Jehovah came again the second time and touched him and said, Rise up and eat; for the journey is too great for you.
And he rose up and ate and drank, and he went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb the mount of God.
And there he went into a cave and lodged there. And at that time the word of Jehovah came to him; and He said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah?
And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, thrown down Your altars, and slain Your prophets with the sword; and I alone am left, and they seek to take my life.
And He said, Go out, and stand upon the mountain before Jehovah. And suddenly Jehovah passed by, and a great, strong wind rent the mountains and broke the rocks in pieces before Jehovah--Jehovah was not in the wind. And after the wind, an earthquake--Jehovah was not in the earthquake.
And after the earthquake, a fire--Jehovah was not in the fire. And after the fire, a gentle, quiet voice.
And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave. And then a voice came to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah?
And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, thrown down Your altars, and slain Your prophets with the sword; and I alone am left, and they seek to take my life.
And Jehovah said to him, Go; return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus; and when you come there, anoint Hazael as king over Syria;
And Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint as king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint as prophet in your place.
And him who escapes the sword of Hazael, Jehu will kill; and him who escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill.
Yet I have left Myself seven thousand in Israel, all the knees that have not bowed unto Baal and every mouth that has not kissed him.
And he went from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat. And he was plowing with twelve yokes before him, and he was with the twelfth. And Elijah went over to him and threw his mantle upon him.
And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me kiss my father and my mother, and I will follow you. And he said to him, Go back again; for what have I done to you?
And he returned from him and took the yoke of oxen and slaughtered them; and he boiled their flesh with the implements of the oxen and gave it to the people, and they ate. And he rose up and went after Elijah and ministered to him.