And Solomon allied himself by marriage with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and he took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her to the city of David until he completed the building of his house and the house of Jehovah and the wall of Jerusalem all around.
The people however were sacrificing in the high places, for there had still not been built a house for the name of Jehovah up to those days.
And Solomon loved Jehovah, walking in the statutes of David his father; however he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place; a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer on that altar.
In Gibeon Jehovah appeared to Solomon in a dream at night; and God said, Ask what I should give you.
And Solomon said, You have shown great lovingkindness to Your servant David my father, because he walked before You in truth and righteousness and in uprightness of heart with You; and You have kept for him this great lovingkindness and have given him a son to sit upon his throne, as it is this day.
And now, O Jehovah my God, You have made Your servant king in the place of David my father, though I am a little child; I do not know how to go out or come in.
And Your servant is in the midst of Your people, whom You have chosen, a vast people that cannot be numbered or counted for multitude.
Give therefore to Your servant an understanding heart to judge Your people and to discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this great people of Yours?
And this word seemed good in the sight of the Lord, that Solomon had asked for this matter.
And God said to him, Because you have asked for this matter and have not asked for long life for yourself and have not asked for riches for yourself and have not asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for discernment for yourself to understand justice;
I now do according to your words. I now give you a heart of wisdom and understanding, so that there has been no one like you before you, nor will one rise up after you like you.
And I also give you that for which you did not ask, both riches and glory, so that there will be no one among kings like you all your days.
And if you walk in My ways, keeping My statutes and My commandments, as David your father walked, I will extend your days.
Then Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he went to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah, and he offered up burnt offerings and offered peace offerings and made a feast for all his servants.
At that time two harlots came to the king and stood before him.
And the one woman said, Oh, my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I gave birth while she was in the house.
And on the third day after I gave birth, this woman also gave birth. And we were together; there was no stranger with us in the house; only we two were in the house.
And this woman's son died during the night, because she lay on him.
So she rose up in the middle of the night and took my son from beside me while your female servant was sleeping and laid him in her bosom, and her dead son she laid in my bosom.
Then when I rose up in the morning to nurse my son, there he was, dead. But when I examined him in the morning, that was not my son whom I had given birth to.
And the other woman said, No! The live one is my son, and the dead one is your son. And the first said, No! The dead one is your son, and the live one is my son. And they went on arguing like this before the king.
Then the king said, This one says, This is my son, the live one, and the dead one is your son; and that one says, No! The dead one is your son, and the live one is my son.
And the king said, Get me a sword. And they brought a sword before the king.
And the king said, Divide the live child between the two, and give half to one and half to the other.
And the woman whose son was the live one said to the king (for her compassions for her son burned within), Oh, my lord, give the live child to her, and do not by any means kill him! But the other said, He shall neither be mine nor yours; divide him.
And the king answered and said, Give her the live child, and do not by any means kill him; she is his mother.
And all Israel heard of the judgment that the king had exercised, and they feared the king; for they saw that the wisdom of God was within him to execute justice.