Then in the four hundred eightieth year after the children of Israel had come forth out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of his reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv (this is the second month), Solomon began to build the house of Jehovah.
And the house which King Solomon built to Jehovah was sixty cubits long and twenty cubits wide and thirty cubits high.
And the portico that was before the temple of the house was twenty cubits long, across the width of the house, and ten cubits deep, in front of the house.
And for the house he made windows with fixed lattices.
And against the wall of the house he built a structure with stories all around, next to the walls of the house all around the temple and the innermost sanctuary; and he made side chambers all around.
The lowest story was five cubits wide; and the middle, six cubits wide; and the third, seven cubits wide; for he provided for outsets to the house all around the outside, so that the beams would not be inserted into the walls of the house.
And the house, when it was being built, was built of finished stone, cut at the quarry, so that neither hammer nor axe nor any iron tool was heard in the house when it was being built.
The door of the middle side chamber was on the right side of the house; and they went up by winding stairs into the middle story, and from the middle into the third.
So he built the house and finished it, and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar.
And he built the stories against all the house, five cubits high; and the structure was held to the house by cedar timbers.
Then the word of Jehovah came to Solomon, saying,
As for this house that you are building, if you walk in My statutes and execute My ordinances and keep all My commandments by walking in them, then I will establish My word with you, which I spoke to David your father;
And I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel, and I will not forsake My people Israel.
So Solomon built the house and finished it.
And he built the walls of the house within with cedar boards; from the floor of the house to the wall of the ceiling he covered them on the inside with wood. And he overlaid the floor of the house with boards of cypress.
And he built twenty cubits of the rear part of the house with cedar boards from the floor to the walls of the ceiling; and he built it within as an innermost sanctuary, as the Holy of Holies.
And the house, that is, the temple before the Holy of Holies, was forty cubits long.
And there was cedar on the house within, carved with gourds and open flowers. It was all cedar; there was no stone showing.
And he prepared an innermost sanctuary in the midst of the house within, in order to put the Ark of the Covenant of Jehovah there.
And the interior of the innermost sanctuary was twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide and twenty cubits high; and he overlaid it with pure gold, and he overlaid the cedar altar.
And Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold; and he drew gold chains before the innermost sanctuary, and overlaid it with gold.
So he overlaid all the house with gold, until all the house was complete; and the whole altar, which belonged to the innermost sanctuary, he overlaid with gold.
And in the innermost sanctuary he made two cherubim of olive wood, ten cubits high.
And the one wing of the cherub was five cubits, and the second wing of the cherub was five cubits; ten cubits from the end of its one wing to the end of its other wing.
And the second cherub was ten cubits; both cherubim had one measure and one shape.
The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was that of the second cherub.
And he put the cherubim in the midst of the inner house. And the wings of the cherubim were spread out so that the wing of the one cherub was touching the wall and the wing of the second cherub was touching the second wall; and their other wings were touching at the middle of the house, wing to wing.
And he overlaid the cherubim with gold.
And he carved all the walls of the house all around with engraved carvings of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, in both the inner chamber and the outer one.
And the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, in both the inner chamber and the outer one.
And for the entrance of the innermost sanctuary he made doors of olive wood; the lintel and doorposts were a fifth of the breadth of the wall.
And there were two doors of olive wood. And he carved carvings of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers upon them, and he overlaid them with gold and spread the gold upon the cherubim and the palm trees.
So also he made for the entrance of the temple doorposts of olive wood, out of a fourth of the breadth of the wall,
And two doors of cypress wood; the two leaves of the one door folded, and the two leaves of the second door folded.
And he carved cherubim and palm trees and open flowers on them, and he overlaid them with gold evenly applied over the carved work.
And he built the inner court with three courses of hewn stone and a course of cedar beams.
In the fourth year the foundation of the house of Jehovah was laid, in the month of Ziv;
And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul (which is the eighth month) the house was completed in all its parts and according to all its specifications. Thus he was seven years building it.