And Solomon was thirteen years building his own house, and he finished all his house.
And he built the Lebanon Forest House, a hundred cubits long and fifty cubits wide and thirty cubits high, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars.
And it was roofed with cedar above the forty-five beams that were upon the pillars, fifteen in a row.
And there were window frames in three rows, and window was next to window in three tiers.
And all the doorways and doorposts had square frames, and window was next to window in three tiers.
And he made the portico of pillars, fifty cubits long and thirty cubits wide, with a portico before them and with pillars and a threshold before them.
And he made the throne portico, where he would execute judgment, the judgment portico; and it was covered with cedar from floor to floor.
And his house that he was to dwell in, in the court to the rear of the throne portico, was of the same workmanship. He also made a house for Pharaoh's daughter, whom Solomon had taken as his wife, like this portico.
All these were of costly stones, cut according to measure, sawed with saws, within and without, from the foundation to the coping, and from the outside to the great court.
And the foundation was of costly stones, large stones, stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits.
And above were costly stones, cut according to measure, and cedar.
And the great court surrounding had three rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar beams, as did the inner court of the house of Jehovah and the portico of the house.
And King Solomon sent for Hiram and brought him from Tyre.
He was the son of a widow and of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a bronze worker; and he was full of wisdom and understanding and skill to do all kinds of work in bronze. And he came to King Solomon and did all his work.
And he formed the two bronze pillars; eighteen cubits was the height of each pillar, and a line of twelve cubits encompassed each pillar.
And he made two capitals of molten bronze to set upon the tops of the pillars; the height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the second capital was five cubits.
There were nets of checker work with wreaths of chain work for the capitals that were at the top of the pillars, seven for the one capital, and seven for the second capital.
So he made the pillars; and there were two rows of pomegranates around the one network, to cover the capitals that were at the top of the pillars. And he did the same for the second capital.
And the capitals that were at the top of the pillars in the portico were of lily work, four cubits in diameter.
So then the capitals that were on the two pillars were above and close to the bulge that was beside the network. And there were two hundred pomegranates, in rows around both capitals.
And he erected the pillars at the portico of the temple. When he erected the right pillar, he called its name Jachin; and when he erected the left pillar, he called its name Boaz.
And at the top of the pillars was lily work. And the work on the pillars was completed.
And he made the molten sea, ten cubits from brim to brim, fully round; and it was five cubits high, and a line of thirty cubits encompassed it.
And under its brim there were gourds all around, encircling it, ten to a cubit, surrounding the sea all around; the gourds were cast in two rows when they were cast.
It stood upon twelve oxen, three facing north and three facing west and three facing south and three facing east; and the sea was upon them, and all their hindquarters were within.
And it was a handbreadth thick; and its brim was like the work of a cup's brim, like the flower of a lily; it held two thousand baths.
And he made the ten bases of bronze; one base was four cubits long and four cubits wide, and it was three cubits high.
And this was the work of each base: They had panels, and the panels were between frames.
And on the panels that were between the frames were lions, oxen, and cherubim. And above the frames was a pedestal, and below the lions and oxen there were wreaths of hanging work.
And each base had four bronze wheels with bronze axles. And its four feet had supports; underneath the laver the supports had been cast, with wreaths at the side of each.
And the mouth of the laver was within this crown, and it rose above it by one cubit; and its mouth was round like the work of a pedestal; it was a cubit and a half across; and upon its mouth were engravings as well, and its panels were square, not round.
And the four wheels were underneath the panels, and the wheel axles were in the base; each wheel was a cubit and a half high.
And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel: their axles and their rims and their spokes and their hubs were all molten.
And there were four supports at the four corners of each base; its supports were part of the base.
And at the top of the base there was a round band half a cubit high; and at the top of the base, its stays and its panels were of one piece.
And on the surfaces of the stays and on its panels he engraved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, as there was space on each, with wreaths all around.
In this manner he made the ten bases; all of them had one casting, one measure, and one form.
And he made ten bronze lavers; each laver held forty baths; each laver was four cubits across; there was one laver upon every one of the ten bases.
And he set the bases, five on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house; and the sea he set on the right side of the house, on the east side at the south.
And Hiram made the pots and the shovels and the bowls. Thus Hiram finished doing all the work that he was doing for King Solomon in the house of Jehovah:
The two pillars, and the two bowls of the capitals that were at the top of the pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were at the top of the pillars;
And the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars;
And the ten bases and the ten lavers upon the bases;
And the one sea and the twelve oxen under the sea;
And the pots and the shovels and the bowls; all these vessels that Hiram made for King Solomon in the house of Jehovah were of burnished bronze.
The king cast them in the plain of the Jordan, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan.
And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed because of the very great number; the weight of bronze could not be ascertained.
And Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of Jehovah: the golden altar; and the golden table upon which the bread of the Presence was put;
And the lampstands of pure gold, five on the right and five on the left, before the innermost sanctuary; and the flowers and the lamps and the tongs, of gold;
And the large cups and the snuffers and the bowls and the small cups and the firepans, of pure gold; and the hinges, for the doors of the inner house, the Holy of Holies, and for the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.
Thus all the work that King Solomon did in the house of Jehovah was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had sanctified, the silver and the gold and the vessels, and he put them in the treasuries of the house of Jehovah.