And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, and put fire in them and laid incense on it, and they presented strange fire before Jehovah, which He had not commanded them.
And fire came out from before Jehovah and consumed them, and they died before Jehovah.
Then Moses said to Aaron, This is what Jehovah spoke, saying, In those who come near to Me I will be sanctified, / And before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron was silent.
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near; carry your brothers from before the sanctuary to the outside of the camp.
So they came near and carried them in their tunics to the outside of the camp, just as Moses had said.
Then Moses said to Aaron and to his sons Eleazar and Ithamar, Do not dishevel the hair of your heads, and do not tear your garments, that you may not die and that He may not be angry with all the assembly. But let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, weep for the burning which Jehovah has kindled.
And you shall not go out from the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Jehovah is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
Then Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying,
Drink no wine or strong drink, neither you nor your sons with you, when you come into the Tent of Meeting, that you may not die; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations,
Both to make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
And to teach the children of Israel all the statutes which Jehovah has spoken to them through Moses.
Then Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, Take the meal offering which remains of Jehovah's offerings by fire, and eat it unleavened beside the altar; for it is most holy.
And you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your due and your sons' due of Jehovah's offerings by fire; for so I have been commanded.
And the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the heave offering you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you; for they have been given as your due and your sons' due out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the children of Israel.
The thigh of the heave offering and the breast of the wave offering they shall bring with the offerings by fire of the fat portions to wave as a wave offering before Jehovah, and it shall become a perpetual statute for you and for your sons with you, just as Jehovah has commanded.
Then Moses diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering, but it had already been burned. So he was angry with Eleazar and with Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were left, saying,
Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary? For it is most holy, and He gave it to you to bear the iniquity of the assembly, to make expiation for them before Jehovah.
Now its blood was not brought inside, into the sanctuary; you should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, just as I commanded.
But Aaron spoke to Moses, See, today they have presented their sin offering and their burnt offering before Jehovah, and such things as these have befallen me! And if I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been good in the sight of Jehovah?
And when Moses heard that, it seemed good in his sight.