Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, I am Jehovah your God.
You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, in which you dwelt; and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you, nor shall you walk in their statutes.
You shall observe My ordinances, and you shall keep My statutes to walk in them; I am Jehovah your God.
So you shall keep My statutes and My ordinances, by which, if a man does them, he will live; I am Jehovah.
None of you shall approach to any of his close relatives to uncover their nakedness; I am Jehovah.
The nakedness of your father, that is, the nakedness of your mother, you shall not uncover. She is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
The nakedness of your father's wife you shall not uncover; it is your father's nakedness.
The nakedness of your sister, your father's daughter, or your mother's daughter, whether born at home or born abroad, their nakedness you shall not uncover.
The nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, their nakedness you shall not uncover; for their nakedness is your own nakedness.
The nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, begotten of your father--she is your sister--you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's flesh.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's flesh.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, that is, you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness; they are her flesh; it is wickedness.
And you shall not take a woman as wife in addition to her sister, as a rival to uncover her nakedness while she is alive.
And you shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness.
And you shall not have sexual relations with the wife of your fellow countryman to become defiled with her.
And you shall not give any of your offspring to pass through the fire to Molech, and so profane the name of your God; I am Jehovah.
You shall not lie with a male as one lies with a woman; it is an abomination.
And you shall not lie with any beast to defile yourself with it; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down with it; it is confusion.
Do not defile yourselves in any of these things, for by all these the nations which I am casting out before you have defiled themselves.
Because the land has become defiled, I visited its iniquity upon it, and the land vomited out its inhabitants.
You therefore shall keep My statutes and My ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations, neither the native nor the sojourner who sojourns among you
(For the men of the land who were before you have done all these abominations, and the land has become defiled);
That the land does not vomit you out when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation which was before you.
For all who do any of these abominations, those persons who do them shall be cut off from among their people.
Therefore you shall keep My charge, so that you do not commit any of these abominable customs which were committed before you, and you do not defile yourselves by them; I am Jehovah your God.