Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to all the assembly of the children of Israel, and say to them, You shall be holy, for I, Jehovah your God, am holy.
Each one of you shall fear his mother and his father, and you shall keep My Sabbaths; I am Jehovah your God.
Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves molten gods; I am Jehovah your God.
And when you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted.
It shall be eaten on the day you sacrifice it, or on the next day, but what remains until the third day shall be burned with fire.
But if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it will not be accepted.
And whoever eats it will bear his own iniquity, because he has profaned what is holy to Jehovah; and that person shall be cut off from his people.
And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest.
And you shall not glean your vineyard nor shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall not steal; neither shall you deceive nor deal falsely with one another.
And you shall not swear falsely by My name, thus profaning the name of your God; I am Jehovah.
You shall not oppress your neighbor nor rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
You shall not curse the deaf nor put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God; I am Jehovah.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment; you shall not respect the person of the poor nor honor the person of the great, but in righteousness you shall judge your fellow countryman.
You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people, nor shall you profit by the blood of your neighbor; I am Jehovah.
You shall not hate your brother in your heart; but you shall surely reprove your fellow countryman, so that you do not bring sin upon yourself because of him.
You shall not take vengeance nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself; I am Jehovah.
You shall keep My statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a different kind; you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed, nor shall a garment made of two kinds of material come upon you.
And if a man lies down and has sexual relations with a woman who is a slave designated for another man, but not at all redeemed nor given her freedom, there shall be an inquiry; they shall not be put to death, because she was not freed.
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, a ram for a trespass offering.
And the priest shall make expiation for him before Jehovah with the ram of the trespass offering for his sin which he has committed; and the sin which he has committed will be forgiven him.
And when you come into the land and plant all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as unharvestable. Three years it shall be unharvestable to you; it shall not be eaten.
But in the fourth year all their fruit shall be holy, for giving praise to Jehovah.
And in the fifth year you may eat of their fruit, that their produce may increase for you; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall not eat anything with blood, nor shall you practice divination or soothsaying.
You shall not round the corners of your heads, nor shall you mar the edges of your beard.
You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor inscribe any marks upon you; I am Jehovah.
Do not profane your daughter by making her a harlot, so that the land does not fall to harlotry, and the land become full of wickedness.
You shall keep My Sabbaths and revere My sanctuary; I am Jehovah.
Do not turn to mediums or to spiritists; do not seek after them to be defiled by them; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall rise up before the grayheaded and honor the face of the old man. And you shall fear your God; I am Jehovah.
And if a sojourner sojourns with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
The sojourner who sojourns with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin; I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
And you shall observe all My statutes and all My ordinances, and do them; I am Jehovah.