Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful with the holy things of the children of Israel, which they sanctify to Me, so that they do not profane My holy name; I am Jehovah.
Say to them, If anyone among all your seed throughout your generations approaches the holy things, which the children of Israel sanctify to Jehovah, and his uncleanness is upon him, that person shall be cut off from before Me; I am Jehovah.
No one of the seed of Aaron who is a leper or who has a discharge may eat of the holy things until he is clean. And whoever touches anything that is unclean because of contact with a dead person, or a man whose seed of copulation has gone from him,
Or whoever touches any creeping thing by which he may be made unclean, or a man by whom he may be made unclean, whatever his uncleanness,
The person who touches any such thing shall be unclean until the evening and shall not eat of the holy things unless he has bathed his body in water.
And when the sun sets, he shall be clean; and afterward he may eat of the holy things, because it is his food.
He shall not eat an animal which has died or is torn by beasts to become unclean by it; I am Jehovah.
They shall therefore keep My charge, so that they do not bring sin upon themselves because of it and die by it because they profane it; I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
No stranger may eat any holy thing; a sojourner with a priest or a hired servant shall not eat any holy thing.
But if a priest acquires anyone through a purchase with his money, that one may eat of it; and those who are born in his house may eat of his food.
And if a priest's daughter is married to a stranger, she shall not eat of the heave offering of the holy things.
But if a priest's daughter becomes a widow or divorced and has no child, and she returns to her father's house as in her youth, she may eat of her father's food; but no stranger may eat of it.
And if a man eats the holy thing in ignorance, then he shall add one-fifth of its value to it and shall give the holy thing to the priest.
And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel that they offer to Jehovah,
And so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt when they eat their holy things; for I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, When anyone of the house of Israel or of the sojourners in Israel presents his offering, whether it is any of their vows or any of their freewill offerings which they present to Jehovah for a burnt offering;
It shall be a male without blemish from the cattle, from the sheep, or from the goats, for you to be accepted.
But whatever has a blemish, you shall not present, for it will not be acceptable for you.
And whoever presents a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah to make a special vow or for a freewill offering, from the herd or from the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish in it.
You shall not present these to Jehovah: anything blind or injured or maimed or having a suppuration or eczema or scale; nor shall you make an offering by fire from them on the altar to Jehovah.
An ox or a lamb that has anything superfluous or lacking in its parts, that you may offer for a freewill offering; but it shall not be accepted for a vow.
And anything with its testicles bruised or crushed or broken or cut, you shall not present to Jehovah; you shall not do this in your land.
And from the hand of a foreigner you shall not present the food of your God from any of these, because their corruption is in them. There is a blemish in them; they shall not be accepted for you.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
When an ox or a sheep or a goat is born, it shall remain seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day and onward it shall be accepted for the offering of an offering by fire to Jehovah.
But whether cow or sheep, you shall not slaughter both it and its young on one day.
And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted.
On the same day it shall be eaten; you shall leave none of it until the morning; I am Jehovah.
Therefore you shall keep My commandments and do them; I am Jehovah.
And you shall not profane My holy name, but I will be sanctified among the children of Israel; I am Jehovah who sanctifies you,
Who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God; I am Jehovah.