Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel to bring to you pure oil of beaten olives for the light, to make the lamps burn continually.
Outside the veil of the Testimony in the Tent of Meeting Aaron shall maintain it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah continually. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
He shall maintain the lamps in order on the pure lampstand before Jehovah continually.
And you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it; two-tenths of an ephah shall be in each cake.
And you shall set them in two rows, six in a row, on the table of pure gold before Jehovah.
And you shall put pure frankincense on each row, so that it may be a memorial for the bread, an offering by fire to Jehovah.
Every Sabbath day continually he shall set it in order before Jehovah; it is an everlasting covenant for the children of Israel.
And it shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in a holy place, for it is most holy to him of Jehovah's offerings by fire, a perpetual statute.
Now the son of an Israelite woman, who was also the son of an Egyptian man, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a certain Israelite struggled together in the camp.
And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name and cursed, and they brought him to Moses. (Now his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)
And they put him in custody so that it might be declared to them by the mouth of Jehovah.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Bring forth the one who has cursed outside the camp; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the assembly stone him.
And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, Anyone who curses his God shall bear his sin.
And the one who blasphemes the name of Jehovah shall surely be put to death; all the assembly shall surely stone him. The sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
And anyone who takes the life of any human being shall surely be put to death.
And the one who takes the life of a beast shall make restitution for it, life for life.
And anyone who causes an injury to his fellow countryman, as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
A fracture for a fracture, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth; just as he has caused an injury to a man, so it will be inflicted on him.
And one who kills a beast shall make restitution for it, but one who kills a human being shall be put to death.
You shall have one judgment for the sojourner as well as for the native, for I am Jehovah your God.
And Moses spoke to the children of Israel, and they brought forth the one who had cursed outside the camp and stoned him with stones. So the children of Israel did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.