And if his offering is a sacrifice of peace offerings, if he presents it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall present it without blemish before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood on and around the altar.
And from the sacrifice of peace offerings he shall present an offering by fire to Jehovah, the fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is on the inward parts;
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins; and the appendage on the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys.
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire; it is an offering by fire, a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah is from the flock, he shall present it, male or female, without blemish.
If he presents a lamb for his offering, then he shall present it before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it before the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood on and around the altar.
And from the sacrifice of peace offerings he shall present an offering by fire to Jehovah, its fat, the entire fat tail which he shall remove close to the backbone, and the fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is on the inward parts;
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins; and the appendage on the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn it on the altar; it is the food of the offering by fire to Jehovah.
And if his offering is a goat, then he shall present it before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand on its head and slaughter it before the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood on and around the altar.
And from it he shall present his offering, as an offering by fire to Jehovah, the fat that covers the inward parts and all the fat that is on the inward parts;
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins; and the appendage on the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn them on the altar; it is the food of the offering by fire for a satisfying fragrance; all the fat is Jehovah's.
It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwelling places that you shall not eat any fat or any blood.