And if anyone sins when he hears the voice of adjuration and he is a witness, either seeing or knowing about a matter, if he does not speak up, then he shall bear his iniquity.
Or if anyone touches any unclean thing, whether the carcass of an unclean animal or the carcass of unclean cattle or the carcass of unclean swarming things, and it escapes his notice, and he is unclean, then he will be guilty.
Or if he touches the uncleanness of man, whatever his uncleanness is with which he becomes unclean, and it escapes his notice, when he comes to know it, then he will be guilty.
Or if anyone swears rashly with his lips to do evil or to do good, whatever it is that a man utters rashly with an oath, and it escapes his notice, when he comes to know it, then he shall be guilty in one of these things.
And when he is guilty in one of these things, he shall confess that in which he has sinned;
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah for his sin which he has committed, a female from the flock, a sheep or a goat, as a sin offering; and the priest shall make expiation for him on account of his sin.
And if he cannot afford a lamb, then he shall bring as his trespass offering to Jehovah for that in which he has sinned two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering.
And he shall bring them to the priest, who shall present first that which is for the sin offering; and the priest shall wring off its head at the front of its neck but shall not sever it;
And he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar; it is a sin offering.
And he shall offer the second as a burnt offering according to the ordinance. And the priest shall make expiation for him on account of his sin which he has committed, and he will be forgiven.
But if he cannot afford two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then he shall bring as his offering for that which he has sinned, the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil upon it nor put any frankincense upon it, for it is a sin offering.
And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it as its memorial portion and burn it on the altar, upon Jehovah's offerings by fire; it is a sin offering.
And the priest shall make expiation for him concerning his sin that he has committed in any one of these things, and he will be forgiven. And the rest shall be the priest's, like the meal offering.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
If anyone acts unfaithfully and sins without intent in the holy things of Jehovah, then he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, a ram without blemish out of the flock according to your valuation in silver by shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.
And he shall make restitution for the holy thing in which he has sinned, and he shall add to it a fifth part of it and give it to the priest. And the priest shall make expiation for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and he will be forgiven.
And if anyone sins and does any one of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, though he did not know, he is still guilty and shall bear his iniquity.
And he shall bring to the priest a ram without blemish out of the flock according to your valuation for a trespass offering. And the priest shall make expiation for him concerning the matter in which he erred without intent and did not know, and he will be forgiven.
It is a trespass offering; he is certainly guilty before Jehovah.