Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
If anyone sins and acts unfaithfully against Jehovah and deceives his associate in regard to a deposit or a security, or by robbery, or has extorted from his associate,
Or has found a lost item and lied about it, if he has sworn falsely in any one of all these things a man may do, and sins thereby;
Then if he has sinned and is guilty, he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he got by extortion, or the deposit which was entrusted to him, or the lost item which he found,
Or anything about which he has sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in full, and shall add to it a fifth part of it. He shall give it to the one to whom it belongs, on the day he is found guilty.
And he shall bring to Jehovah his trespass offering, a ram without blemish out of the flock according to your valuation for a trespass offering; to the priest he shall bring it.
And the priest shall make expiation for him before Jehovah, and he will be forgiven for any of the things which he may have done so as to be guilty.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: The burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it.
And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen trousers he shall put on his flesh; and he shall take up the ashes to which the fire has consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
Then he shall take off his garments and put on other garments and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
And the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it; it must not go out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall lay the burnt offering in order upon it and shall burn the fat of the peace offerings on it.
Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.
And this is the law of the meal offering: The sons of Aaron shall present it before Jehovah before the altar.
And one shall take up from it his handful of the fine flour of the meal offering and of its oil and all the frankincense which is on the meal offering, and he shall burn it on the altar for a satisfying fragrance as its memorial portion to Jehovah.
And what is left of it Aaron and his sons may eat; it shall be eaten without leaven in a holy place; in the court of the Tent of Meeting they shall eat it.
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of My offerings by fire; it is most holy, like the sin offering and like the trespass offering.
Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations from Jehovah's offerings by fire; whoever touches them shall be holy.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall present to Jehovah in the day when he is anointed: the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a continual meal offering, half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening.
On a flat plate it shall be prepared with oil; when it is mixed, you shall bring it; as a meal offering of baked pieces you shall present it as a satisfying fragrance to Jehovah.
And the priest anointed to be in his place from among his sons shall prepare it. It shall be a perpetual statute; it shall be wholly burned to Jehovah.
And every meal offering of the priest shall be wholly burned; it must not be eaten.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is slaughtered the sin offering shall be slaughtered before Jehovah; it is most holy.
The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. In a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
Whatever touches its flesh shall be holy. And when any of its blood splashes on a garment, you shall wash whatever was splashed in a holy place.
But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, it shall be scoured and rinsed in water.
Every male among the priests may eat of it; it is most holy.
And any sin offering of which some of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make expiation in the Holy Place shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire.