And this is the law of the trespass offering; it is most holy;
In the place where they slaughter the burnt offering they shall slaughter the trespass offering, and its blood he shall sprinkle on and around the altar.
And he shall present from it all its fat: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inward parts,
And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the appendage upon the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn them on the altar as an offering by fire to Jehovah; it is a trespass offering.
Every male among the priests may eat of it; it shall be eaten in a holy place; it is most holy.
The trespass offering is like the sin offering; there is one law for them: The priest who makes expiation with it shall have it.
And the priest who presents anyone's burnt offering, that priest shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering which he has presented.
And every meal offering that is baked in an oven and everything that is made in a pot or on a flat plate shall belong to the priest who presents it.
And every other meal offering, mingled with oil or dry, shall be for all the sons of Aaron, to each alike.
Now this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings that one shall present to Jehovah:
If he presents it for a thanksgiving, then he shall present with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil and unleavened wafers anointed with oil and saturated cakes of fine flour mingled with oil.
With cakes of leavened bread he shall present his offering with the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving.
And from it he shall present one out of each offering as a heave offering to Jehovah; it shall belong to the priest who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.
And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering; he shall not leave any of it until the morning.
But if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he presents his sacrifice, and on the next day what remains of it shall be eaten;
But what remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire.
And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings is eaten at all on the third day, it will not be accepted, neither will it be reckoned to the one who presents it; it will be an abomination, and the person who eats of it shall bear his own iniquity.
And flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire. And as for other flesh, anyone who is clean may eat such flesh.
But the person who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which belong to Jehovah, with his uncleanness upon him, that person shall be cut off from his people.
And when anyone touches any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man or an unclean beast or any unclean abomination, and eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which belong to Jehovah, that person shall be cut off from his people.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, You shall not eat any fat of an ox or of a sheep or of a goat.
And the fat of an animal that dies and the fat of an animal which is torn by beasts may be put to any other use, but you shall by no means eat it.
For whoever eats the fat of a beast from which someone presents an offering by fire to Jehovah, indeed the person who eats it shall be cut off from his people.
And you shall not eat any blood, either of bird or of beast, in any of your dwelling places.
Any person who eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.
Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, He who presents the sacrifice of his peace offerings to Jehovah shall bring his offering to Jehovah out of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.
His own hands shall bring Jehovah's offerings by fire; the fat with the breast he shall bring, that the breast may be waved as a wave offering before Jehovah.
And the priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast shall be for Aaron and for his sons.
And the right thigh you shall give to the priest for a heave offering out of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
The one among the sons of Aaron who presents the blood of the peace offerings and the fat shall have the right thigh as his portion.
For the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the heave offering I have taken from the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons for a perpetual statute to be observed by the children of Israel.
This is the anointing portion of Aaron and the anointing portion of his sons, from Jehovah's offerings by fire, in the day when he presented them to serve Jehovah as priests,
Which Jehovah commanded to be given them from the children of Israel in the day that He anointed them. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout their generations.
This is the law of the burnt offering and of the meal offering and of the sin offering and of the trespass offering and of the consecration and of the sacrifice of peace offerings,
Which Jehovah commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, on the day that He commanded the children of Israel to present their offerings to Jehovah in the wilderness of Sinai.