Now on the eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel;
And he said to Aaron, Take for yourself a calf of the herd for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and present them before Jehovah.
Then to the children of Israel you shall speak, saying, Take a male goat for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt offering;
And an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal offering mingled with oil; for today Jehovah will appear to you.
So they brought what Moses had commanded before the Tent of Meeting, and all the assembly came near and stood before Jehovah.
And Moses said, This is what Jehovah has commanded you to do, and the glory of Jehovah shall appear to you.
Then Moses said to Aaron, Come near to the altar and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering, and make expiation for yourself and for the people; and make the offering of the people and make expiation for them, just as Jehovah has commanded.
So Aaron came near to the altar and slaughtered the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar, and the rest of the blood he poured out at the base of the altar.
But the fat and the kidneys and the appendage of the liver of the sin offering he burned on the altar, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And the flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
Then he slaughtered the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons handed the blood to him, and he sprinkled it on and around the altar.
And they handed the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head, and he burned them on the altar.
And he washed the inward parts and the legs and burned them upon the burnt offering on the altar.
Then he presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people and slaughtered it and offered it for sin, like the first.
And he presented the burnt offering and offered it according to the ordinance.
Then he presented the meal offering and filled his hand with some of it and burned it on the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
Then he slaughtered the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings which was for the people; and Aaron's sons handed the blood to him, which he sprinkled on and around the altar.
And the fat portions of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and the fat which covers the inward parts and the kidneys and the appendage of the liver--
These fat portions they then put on the breasts; and he burned the fat portions on the altar.
And the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before Jehovah, just as Moses had commanded.
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and he came down from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings.
And Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting. And they came out and blessed the people; and the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the people.
Then fire came forth from before Jehovah and consumed the burnt offering and the fat portions on the altar. And when all the people saw it, they gave a ringing shout and fell on their faces.