And when the kingdom of Rehoboam was established and when it was strong, he and all Israel with him forsook the law of Jehovah.
Then in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had been unfaithful to Jehovah,
With one thousand two hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And the people who came with him from Egypt were without number: Libyans, Sukkiim, and Cushites.
And he captured the fortified cities which belonged to Judah and came as far as Jerusalem.
And Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the princes of Judah who were gathered in Jerusalem because of Shishak; and he said to them, Thus says Jehovah, You have forsaken Me, so I also have forsaken you, delivering you into the hand of Shishak.
So the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, Jehovah is righteous.
And when Jehovah saw that they had humbled themselves, the word of Jehovah came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves; I will not destroy them, but I will give them a little deliverance, and My wrath will not be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak;
For they will become his servants that they may know the difference between serving Me and serving the kingdoms of the lands.
And Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem and took away the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the king's house; indeed he took away all. And he took away the shields of gold that Solomon had made.
And King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place and committed them into the hands of the captains of the guard, who kept the entrance of the king's house.
And whenever the king went into the house of Jehovah, the guards came and carried them and returned them to the guardroom.
And when he humbled himself, the anger of Jehovah turned away from him, and He did not destroy them completely; and also things in Judah were good.
So King Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem and reigned. Now Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city where Jehovah had chosen, out of all the tribes of Israel, to put His name. And his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
And he did what was evil, because he did not prepare his heart to seek Jehovah.
And the acts of Rehoboam, the first and the last, are they not written in the chronicles of Shemaiah the prophet and Iddo the seer according to the genealogical records? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. And Abijah his son reigned in his place.