In the thirty-sixth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha the king of Israel went up against Judah and built Ramah to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa the king of Judah.
And Asa brought out silver and gold from the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the king's house and sent them to Ben-hadad the king of Syria who was dwelling in Damascus, saying,
There is an alliance between me and you as there was between my father and your father. I am now sending you silver and gold; go, break your alliance with Baasha the king of Israel, so that he goes away from me.
And Ben-hadad listened to King Asa. And he sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel, and they struck Ijon and Dan and Abel-maim and all the store cities of Naphtali.
And when Baasha heard this, he stopped building Ramah and ceased his work.
And Asa the king took all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had built it, and built Geba and Mizpah with them.
And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa the king of Judah and said to him, Because you have trusted in the king of Syria and have not trusted in Jehovah your God, therefore the army of the king of Syria has escaped out of your hand.
Were not the Cushites and the Libyans a large host, with a very great abundance of chariots and horsemen? And because you trusted in Jehovah, He gave them into your hands.
For the eyes of Jehovah run to and fro throughout all the earth to strengthen those whose heart is perfect toward Him. You have acted foolishly in this matter; hence from this time on you will have wars.
Then Asa became angry with the seer and put him in prison in stocks, for he was in a rage against him because of this matter. And Asa oppressed some of the people at that time.
And the acts of Asa, the first and the last, are there written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
And in the thirty-ninth year of his reign, Asa became diseased in his feet; his disease was very severe, yet even in his disease he pursued not Jehovah but the physicians.
And Asa slept with his fathers and died in the forty-first year of his reign.
And they buried him in his own grave, which he had hewn out for himself in the city of David. And they laid him in the resting place, which he had filled with various kinds of spices blended in the perfumer's art, and they made a very great burning for him.