And Jehoshaphat had great riches and honor, and he allied himself in marriage with Ahab.
And after a number of years he came down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab slaughtered sheep and oxen in abundance for him and for the people who were with him, and persuaded him to go up against Ramoth-gilead.
And Ahab the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to him, I will be as you are; my people will be as your people; we will be with you in battle.
And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Ask today, I beg you, for the word of Jehovah.
And the king of Israel assembled the prophets, four hundred men, and said to them, Shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain? And they said, Go up, and God will give it into the king's hand.
But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not yet another prophet of Jehovah here, that we might inquire of him?
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Jehovah; but I hate him, for he prophesies no good concerning me, but always evil. He is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
Then the king of Israel called a certain officer and said, Quickly bring Micaiah the son of Imla.
Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, sitting on the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron, and he said, Thus says Jehovah, With these you will push the Syrians until you have destroyed them.
And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and succeed; for Jehovah will deliver it into the king's hand.
And the messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, See, the words of the prophets, being of one accord, seem good to the king. So let your word, I beg you, be like one of them, and speak good.
And Micaiah said, As Jehovah lives, that which my God says, that will I speak.
And when he came to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain? And he said, Go up, and succeed; for they will be delivered into your hand.
And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure you to tell me nothing but the truth in the name of Jehovah?
And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, like sheep that have no shepherd. And Jehovah said, These have no master; let each of them return to his house in peace.
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he prophesies no good concerning me, but evil?
And Micaiah said, Hear therefore the word of Jehovah, I saw Jehovah sitting on His throne and all the host of heaven standing on His right hand and His left.
And Jehovah said, Who shall entice Ahab the king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one said after this manner, and another said after that manner.
And there came forth a certain spirit and stood before Jehovah and said, I will entice him. And Jehovah said unto him, How?
And he said, I will go forth and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And He said, You shall entice him and surely prevail. Go forth, and do so.
So now Jehovah has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets, and Jehovah has spoken evil concerning you.
Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah approached and struck Micaiah upon the cheek and said, Which way did the Spirit of Jehovah pass from me to speak to you?
And Micaiah said, You will see on that day when you go from room to room to hide yourself.
And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son.
And you shall say, Thus says the king, Put this man in prison, and feed him with the bread of affliction and with the water of affliction until I return in peace.
And Micaiah said, If you return in peace at all, Jehovah has not spoken by me. And he said, Listen, O peoples, all of you!
And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and enter into the battle; but you put on your robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went into the battle.
And the king of Syria commanded the captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, but with the king of Israel only.
And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, This is the king of Israel. And they surrounded him to fight, and Jehoshaphat cried out. And Jehovah helped him, and God diverted them from him.
And when the captains of the chariots perceived that he was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him.
And a man drew a bow at random and hit the king of Israel between the scale armor and the breastplate. And the king of Israel said to the charioteer, Turn your hand, and drive me out of the camp; for I am wounded.
And the battle increased that day; and the king of Israel was propped up in his chariot before the Syrians until the evening, and he died at the time of the setting of the sun.