Then in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself and took the captains of the hundreds--Azariah the son of Jeroham and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan and Azariah the son of Obed and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah and Elishaphat the son of Zichri--into a covenant with him.
And they went around in Judah and gathered the Levites from all the cities of Judah and the heads of fathers' houses of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem.
And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And Jehoiada said to them, Now, the king's son shall reign, as Jehovah spoke concerning the sons of David.
This is the thing that you shall do: A third of you who come on duty on the Sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be the doorkeepers;
And another third shall keep watch in the king's house, and another third shall keep watch in the Gate of the Foundation, and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of Jehovah.
But let no one come into the house of Jehovah except the priests and the ministering Levites; they can come because they are holy; but all the people shall keep the charge of Jehovah.
And the Levites shall surround the king, each man with his weapons in his hand; and whoever enters the house shall be put to death; and you shall be with the king in his comings and goings.
And the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded them. And each took his men, those who came on duty on the Sabbath with those who went off duty on the Sabbath; for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the divisions.
And Jehoiada the priest gave the spears and the large and small shields that had belonged to King David, which were in the house of God, to the captains of the hundreds.
And he set all the people, each man with his javelin in his hand, from the right flank of the house to the left flank of the house, by the altar and by the house, to guard the king all around.
And they brought the king's son out and put the crown on him and gave him the testimony, and they made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and they said, Long live the king!
Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she went to the people at the house of Jehovah.
And she looked, and there was the king, standing by his pillar at the entrance, with the captains and the trumpets near the king. And all the people of the land rejoiced and blew the trumpets, and the singers with their musical instruments were leading the praise. And Athaliah tore her clothes and said, Treason! Treason!
And Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of the hundreds who had been set over the army and said to them, Bring her out between the ranks, and anyone who follows her shall be killed with a sword; for the priest said, You shall not kill her in the house of Jehovah.
And they made way for her, and she went to the king's house through the entrance of the horses' gate; and they killed her there.
And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and all the people and the king that they would be Jehovah's people.
And all the people went to the house of Baal and broke it down: The altars to him and his images they broke up, and they slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
And Jehoiada placed officers of the house of Jehovah under the authority of the Levitical priests whom David had apportioned over the house of Jehovah, to offer up the burnt offerings of Jehovah, as was written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and singing, according to the order of David.
And he set the doorkeepers at the doors of the house of Jehovah so that no one would enter who was unclean in any respect.
And Jehoiada gathered the captains of the hundreds and the nobles and the rulers of the people and all the people of the land and brought the king down from the house of Jehovah. And they went through the upper gate to the king's house and set the king upon the throne of the kingdom.
And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet; for they had slain Athaliah with the sword.