And the queen of Sheba had heard of Solomon's fame, and she came to Jerusalem with a very large retinue and with camels bearing spices and much gold and precious stones to test Solomon with hard questions. And when she came to Solomon, she spoke with him all that was on her heart.
And Solomon answered every matter of hers, and there was nothing hidden from Solomon that he did not answer her.
And when the queen of Sheba saw the wisdom of Solomon and the house that he had built
And the food of his table and the seating of his servants and the service and apparel of his ministers and his cupbearers and their apparel and his ascent by which he went up to the house of Jehovah, there was no more spirit in her.
And she said to the king, The word that I heard in my land concerning your deeds and your wisdom is true,
But I did not believe their words until I came and my own eyes saw. And indeed the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not told me, and you exceed the report that I heard.
Happy are your men! And happy are these your servants, who attend you continually and hear your wisdom!
Blessed be Jehovah your God, who has delighted in you and set you upon His throne as king for Jehovah your God. Because your God loves Israel to establish them forever, He has placed you as king over them to execute justice and righteousness.
And she gave the king one hundred twenty talents of gold and a very great store of spices and some precious stones, and there had never been spices like those which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
Moreover Huram's servants and Solomon's servants who brought gold from Ophir brought algum trees and precious stones.
And the king made of the algum trees steps for the house of Jehovah and for the king's house and lyres and harps for the singers; such as these had not been seen before in the land of Judah.
And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked for, besides that which she brought to the king. And she turned and went to her own land, she and her servants.
Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred sixty-six talents of gold,
Besides that which was brought by the traders and the merchants and by all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land, who brought gold and silver to Solomon.
And King Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold; he put six hundred shekels of beaten gold upon each large shield.
And he made three hundred smaller shields of beaten gold; he put three hundred shekels of gold upon each smaller shield. And the king put them in the Lebanon Forest House.
And the king made a large ivory throne and overlaid it with pure gold.
And the throne had six steps, and a footstool of gold was attached to the throne, and there were armrests on either side next to the place of the seat, and two lions stood next to the armrests.
And twelve lions stood there upon the six steps on either side. Nothing like it had ever been made in any kingdom.
And all King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the Lebanon Forest House were of pure gold; silver was considered as nothing in the days of Solomon.
For the king had a fleet which went to Tarshish with Huram's servants. Once every three years the fleet from Tarshish came bearing gold and silver and ivory and apes and peacocks.
And King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in wealth and in wisdom.
And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.
And they each brought their tribute, vessels of silver and vessels of gold, and robes, weapons and spices, horses and mules, so much year by year.
And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots; and twelve thousand horsemen, which he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem.
And he was the ruler over all the kings from the River unto the land of the Philistines and unto the border of Egypt.
And the king caused silver to be as plentiful as stones in Jerusalem, and cedars, like the sycamores that are in the lowlands.
And they brought horses for Solomon from Egypt and from all the lands.
And the rest of the acts of Solomon, the first and the last, are they not written in the chronicles of Nathan the prophet and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?
And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
And Solomon slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.