The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
Listen to the words of this covenant and speak them to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And you shall say to them, Thus says Jehovah the God of Israel, Cursed is the man who does not listen to the words of this covenant,
Which I commanded your fathers in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, Listen to My voice and do the things according to all which I command you; and you will be My people and I will be your God,
That I may establish the oath which I swore to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. And I answered and said, Amen, Jehovah.
And Jehovah said to me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear the words of this covenant and do them.
For I solemnly warned your fathers in the day that I brought them up from the land of Egypt, even to this day, rising up early and warning, saying, Listen to My voice.
But they did not listen or incline their ear, but all walked in the stubbornness of their evil heart; therefore I brought upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, and they have not done them.
And Jehovah said to me, A conspiracy has been found among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
They have turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to listen to My words, and they have gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken My covenant which I made with their fathers.
Therefore thus says Jehovah, I am about to bring evil upon them, from which they cannot escape; and they will cry to Me, but I will not listen to them.
Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they burn incense, but they will not save them at all in the time of their trouble.
For according to the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah, and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem you have set up altars to that shameful thing, altars to burn incense to Baal.
And as for you, do not pray for this people, nor lift up a ringing cry or a prayer for them; for I will not hear when they call to Me because of their trouble.
What has My beloved to do in My house, / Since she has committed lewdness with many / And the holy flesh has passed from you? / When you do evil, then you rejoice.
Jehovah called your name, / A flourishing olive tree, beautiful in fruit and form; / With the sound of a great tumult / He has set fire to it, / And its branches are broken.
And Jehovah of hosts, who planted you, has pronounced evil against you because of the evil of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah, which they have done for themselves, to provoke Me to anger by burning incense to Baal.
And Jehovah made it known to me, so I knew; then You showed me their deeds.
And I was like a gentle lamb led to the slaughter, and I did not know that they devised devices against me, saying, Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, and let us cut him off from the land of the living that his name be remembered no longer.
But, O Jehovah of hosts, who judges righteously, / Who tests the inward parts and the heart, / Let me see Your vengeance on them, / For I have revealed my cause to You.
Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, saying, Do not prophesy in the name of Jehovah, that you may not die by our hand;
Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, I am about to punish them: The young men will die by the sword; their sons and their daughters will die by famine;
And they will have no remnant, because I will bring evil to the men of Anathoth in the year of their punishment.