Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of My pasture, declares Jehovah.
Therefore thus says Jehovah the God of Israel concerning the shepherds who shepherd My people, You have scattered My flock and driven them away and have not visited them; I will visit upon you the evil of your deeds, declares Jehovah.
Then I will gather the remnant of My flock out of all the lands where I have driven them, and I will bring them back to their pasture; and they will be fruitful and multiply.
And I will raise up shepherds over them who will shepherd them, and they will no longer fear or be dismayed, nor will any be missing, declares Jehovah.
Indeed, days are coming, / Declares Jehovah, / When I will raise up to David a righteous Shoot; / And He will reign as King and act prudently / And will execute justice and righteousness in the land.
In His days Judah will be saved, And Israel will dwell securely; / And this is His name by which He will be called: / Jehovah our righteousness.
Therefore indeed, days are coming, declares Jehovah, when they will no longer say, As Jehovah lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;
But, As Jehovah lives, who brought up and led back the seed of the house of Israel out of the land of the north and out of all the lands where I had driven them, that they might dwell in their own land.
Concerning the prophets: My heart is broken within me; / All my bones fail. / I have become like a man who is drunk, / Even like a mighty man who is overcome by wine, / Because of Jehovah / And because of the words of His holiness.
For the land is full of adulterers; / For the land mourns because of the curse. / The pastures of the wilderness are dried up, / And the course they run is evil, / And their might is not right.
For both the prophet and the priest are profane; / Even in My house I have found their wickedness, / Declares Jehovah.
Therefore their way will become like slippery paths for them; / In the darkness they will be driven and will fall in it; / For I will bring evil on them / In the year of their punishment, declares Jehovah.
And in the prophets of Samaria / I have seen an offensive thing: / They prophesied by Baal / And led My people Israel astray.
And yet in the prophets of Jerusalem / I have seen a horrible thing: / The committing of adultery and walking in falsehood; / And they strengthen the hands of evildoers, / So that none turn / From their wickedness. / All of them have become to Me like Sodom / And her inhabitants like Gomorrah.
Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts concerning the prophets: / I will feed them with wormwood / And give them poisonous water to drink, / For profaneness has gone forth / From the prophets of Jerusalem into all the land.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, / Do not listen to the words of the prophets who are prophesying to you; / They are leading you to vanity; / They speak a vision of their own heart, / Not out of the mouth of Jehovah.
They say continually to those who despise Me, / Jehovah has spoken, You will have peace; / And to everyone who walks in the stubbornness of his own heart, / They say, Evil will not come upon you.
For who has stood in the council of Jehovah, / That he should perceive and hear His word? / Who has given heed to His word and listened?
Look, the storm wind of Jehovah! Wrath has gone forth, / Even a whirling tempest; / It will whirl down on the head of the wicked.
The anger of Jehovah will not turn back / Until He has executed and until He has accomplished / The purposes of His heart; / In the last days / You will understand it clearly.
I did not send the prophets, / But they ran forth; / I did not speak to them, / Yet they prophesied.
But if they had stood in My council / And had caused My people to hear My words, / They would have turned them from their evil way / And from the evil of their deeds.
Am I a God who is near, declares Jehovah, / And not a God who is far off?
Can a man hide himself in secret places, / So that I will not see him? declares Jehovah. / Do I not fill the heavens and the earth? / Declares Jehovah.
I have heard what the prophets say, who prophesy falsehood in My name, saying, I have dreamed; I have dreamed.
How long will this be in the heart of the prophets who prophesy falsehood and who are prophets of the deceit of their own heart,
Who think to cause My people to forget My name with their dreams which they tell, each one to his neighbor, even as their fathers forgot My name because of Baal?
The prophet who has a dream, let him tell the dream; and he with whom is My word, let him speak My word faithfully. What is the straw to the grain? declares Jehovah.
Is not My word thus--like fire, declares Jehovah, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
Therefore indeed, I am against the prophets, declares Jehovah, who steal My words, each one from his neighbor.
Indeed, I am against the prophets, declares Jehovah, who use their tongues and declare, He has declared.
Indeed, I am against those who prophesy false dreams, declares Jehovah, and who tell them and lead My people astray by their lies and by their recklessness, although I did not send them or command them; neither do they profit this people at all, declares Jehovah.
And when this people or the prophet or priest asks you, saying, What is the burden of Jehovah? then you shall say to them, What burden? I will even cast you off, declares Jehovah.
And as for the prophet and the priest and the people who say, The burden of Jehovah, I will punish that man and his household.
Thus you shall say every one to his neighbor and every one to his brother, What has Jehovah answered? or, What has Jehovah spoken?
And you shall mention no more the burden of Jehovah, for every man's word will be his own burden; for you have perverted the words of the living God, Jehovah of hosts, our God.
Thus you shall say to the prophet, What has Jehovah answered you? or, What has Jehovah spoken?
But if you say, The burden of Jehovah, therefore thus says Jehovah, Because you have said this word, The burden of Jehovah, and I have sent to you, saying, You shall not say, The burden of Jehovah,
Therefore, I will utterly forget you and cast away from My presence you and the city which I gave to you and to your fathers.
And I will bring upon you eternal reproach and eternal humiliation, which will not be forgotten.