The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, the king of Judah (that is, the first year of Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon),
Which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying,
From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, the king of Judah, even unto this day, these twenty-three years, the word of Jehovah came to me, and I spoke to you, rising up early and speaking, but you have not listened.
And Jehovah sent to you all His servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, but you have not listened or inclined your ear to hear,
Saying, Turn now every one from his evil way and from the evil of your deeds, and dwell upon the land which Jehovah has given you and your fathers from eternity to eternity;
And do not go after other gods to serve them and worship them; and do not provoke Me to anger with the work of your hands, and I will do you no harm.
Yet you have not listened to Me, declares Jehovah, that you might provoke Me to anger with the work of your hands to your own harm.
Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, Because you have not listened to My words,
I will send for and take all the families of the north, declares Jehovah, that is, for Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, My servant, and I will bring them against this land and against its inhabitants and against all these surrounding nations and will utterly destroy them and make them an astonishment and a hissing and an eternal reproach.
And I will cause the voice of gladness and the voice of joy to perish from them, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones and the light of the lamp.
And this whole land will become a desolation and a waste, and these nations will serve the king of Babylon seventy years.
Then after the seventy years have been fulfilled, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation for their iniquity, declares Jehovah, as well as the land of the Chaldeans, and I will make it an eternal desolation.
And I will bring upon that land all My words which I have spoken against it, everything written in this book, which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations.
For many nations and great kings will make them serve them, even them, and I will recompense them according to their doing and according to the work of their hands.
For thus said Jehovah the God of Israel to me, Take this cup of the wine of wrath from My hand and make all the nations to whom I am sending you drink it.
And they will drink and stagger and become mad because of the sword which I am sending among them.
And I took the cup from Jehovah's hand and made all the nations to whom Jehovah sent me drink it:
Jerusalem and the cities of Judah and her kings, her princes, to make them a desolation, a waste, a hissing and a curse, as it is this day;
Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and his servants and his princes and all his people;
And all the mingled people, and all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of the Philistines (even Ashkelon and Gaza and Ekron and the remnant of Ashdod);
Edom and Moab and the children of Ammon;
And all the kings of Tyre and all the kings of Sidon and the kings of the islands across the sea;
And Dedan and Tema and Buz and all who cut the corners of their hair;
And all the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the mingled people who dwell in the wilderness;
And all the kings of Zimri and all the kings of Elam and all the kings of Media;
And all the kings of the north, near and far, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the earth which are upon the surface of the ground and the king of Sheshach will drink it after them.
And you shall say to them, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Drink and be drunk, and vomit and fall, and rise no longer, because of the sword which I am sending among you.
And if they refuse to take the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, You shall surely drink it.
For I am now beginning to bring evil on the city which is called by My name, and will you indeed go unpunished? You will not go unpunished, for I am calling for a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth, declares Jehovah of hosts.
Therefore you shall prophesy against them all these words and say to them, Jehovah will roar from on high, / And He will utter His voice from His holy habitation; / He will roar mightily against His habitation; / He will respond with a shout like those who tread grapes, / Against all the inhabitants of the earth.
The tumult comes to the ends of the earth, / For Jehovah has a dispute with the nations. / He is entering into judgment with all flesh / And will give up the wicked to the sword, / Declares Jehovah.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, / Evil is now going forth / From nation to nation, / And a great storm wind is being stirred up / From the uttermost parts of the earth.
And those slain by Jehovah on that day will be from one end of the earth unto the other end of the earth; they will not be mourned or gathered or buried; they will be as dung on the surface of the ground.
Howl, O shepherds, and cry out / And roll in ashes, O majestic ones of the flock; / For your days of slaughter have been fulfilled, / And I will disperse you, so that you fall like a precious vessel.
And refuge will perish from the shepherds, / And an escape from the majestic ones of the flock.
The sound of the cry of the shepherds! / And the howl of the majestic ones of the flock! / For Jehovah is destroying their pasture;
And the habitations of peace are destroyed / Because of the burning anger of Jehovah.
Like a young lion He has left His lair, / For their land has become a waste, / Because of the oppressing sword / And because of His burning anger.