In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, the king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
Thus said Jehovah to me, Make for yourself bonds and yoke bars, and put them on your neck;
And send them to the king of Edom and to the king of Moab and to the king of the children of Ammon and to the king of Tyre and to the king of Sidon by the hand of the messengers who come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah the king of Judah.
And command them to go to their masters, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Thus you shall say to your masters,
It is I who made the earth, and the people and the animals who are on the face of the earth, by My great power and by My outstretched arm; and I give it to whomever it seems right in My own eyes.
And now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, My servant; and I have also given him the beasts of the field to serve him.
And all the nations will serve him and his son and his son's son until the time of his own land comes, when many nations and great kings will make him serve them.
But if any nation or kingdom will not serve this Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon and will not put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, I will punish that nation with sword and with famine and with pestilence, declares Jehovah, until I have consumed them by his hand.
But as for you, do not listen to your prophets and to your diviners and to your dreams and to your soothsayers and to your sorcerers who speak to you, saying, You will not serve the king of Babylon.
For they prophesy falsehood to you, with the result that you will be removed far from your land; and I will drive you out, and you will perish.
But any nation that will bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will leave in its own land, declares Jehovah, to till it and dwell there.
And I spoke to Zedekiah the king of Judah according to all these words, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people, and live.
Why will you die, you and your people, by sword, by famine, and by pestilence, as Jehovah has spoken concerning the nation which will not serve the king of Babylon?
And do not listen to the words of the prophets who speak to you, saying, You will not serve the king of Babylon; for they are prophesying falsehood to you.
For I have not sent them, declares Jehovah; but they prophesy falsely in My name, with the result that I will drive you out and you will perish, you and the prophets who prophesy to you.
And I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thus says Jehovah, Do not listen to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you, saying, The vessels of the house of Jehovah will now shortly be brought back from Babylon; for they are prophesying falsehood to you.
Do not listen to them; serve the king of Babylon and live. Why should this city become a desolation?
But if they are prophets and if the word of Jehovah is with them, let them intercede to Jehovah of hosts that the vessels which are left in the house of Jehovah and in the house of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem may not go to Babylon.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts concerning the pillars and concerning the sea and concerning the bases and concerning the rest of the vessels which are left in this city,
Which Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon did not take when he took into exile Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, from Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels which are left in the house of Jehovah and in the house of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem,
They will be carried to Babylon and remain there until the day I visit them, declares Jehovah; then I will bring them up and restore them to this place.