The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, the king of Judah, saying,
Go to the house of the Rechabites and speak with them and bring them to the house of Jehovah, into one of the chambers, and give them wine to drink.
So I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habazziniah, and his brothers and all his sons and the whole house of the Rechabites,
And I brought them to the house of Jehovah, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah, the man of God, which was near the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the threshold.
And I set before the members of the house of the Rechabites pitchers full of wine and cups; and I said to them, Drink wine.
But they said, We will drink no wine, for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, saying, You shall not drink wine, you and your sons, forever.
And you shall not build a house, and you shall not sow seed, and you shall not plant a vineyard or have one; but you shall dwell in tents all your days, that you may live many days on the land where you are sojourning.
And we have listened to the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, to all that he commanded us: to drink no wine all our days, we, our wives, our sons, and our daughters,
And not to build houses for us to dwell in; neither do we have a vineyard or a field or seed.
But we have dwelt in tents and have listened to and done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
But when Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon came up against the land we said, Come and let us go to Jerusalem from before the army of the Chaldeans and from before the army of the Syrians. So we are dwelling in Jerusalem.
Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Go and say to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction by listening to My words? declares Jehovah.
The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, by which he commanded his sons to drink no wine, have been established, and they have drunk no wine unto this day, for they have obeyed the command of their father. But I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking, yet you have not listened to Me.
I have also sent to you all My servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Turn now every one from his evil way, and amend your deeds, and do not go after other gods to serve them; and you will dwell in the land which I gave to you and to your fathers; but you did not incline your ear or listen to Me.
But the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have established the commandment of their father, which he commanded them, yet this people have not listened to Me.
Therefore thus says Jehovah the God of hosts, the God of Israel: I am about to bring on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil which I have spoken against them; because I spoke to them, but they did not listen; and I called to them, but they did not answer.
But to the house of the Rechabites Jeremiah said, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Because you have listened to the commandment of Jonadab your father and have kept all his commandments and have done according to all that he commanded you;
Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Jonadab the son of Rechab will never lack a man to stand before Me forever.