And in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, the king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
Take a scroll book and write on it all the words which I have spoken to you concerning Israel and concerning Judah and concerning all the nations from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah even to this day.
Perhaps the house of Judah will listen to all the evil which I intend to do to them so that they may turn, each one from his evil way, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.
Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Jehovah, which He had spoken to him, on a scroll book.
And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am restrained; I cannot go to the house of Jehovah;
Therefore you shall go and read in the scroll on which you have written from my mouth the words of Jehovah in the ears of the people in the house of Jehovah on the day of fasting; and you shall also read them in the ears of all Judah who come from their cities.
Perhaps their supplication will come before Jehovah, and each one will turn from his evil way, for great is the anger and the wrath which Jehovah has spoken against this people.
And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, to read in the book the words of Jehovah in the house of Jehovah.
And in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, the king of Judah, in the ninth month, they proclaimed a fast before Jehovah for all the people in Jerusalem and for all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem.
Then Baruch read the words of Jeremiah in the book in the house of Jehovah, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of the house of Jehovah, in the ears of all the people.
When Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, heard all the words of Jehovah from the book,
He went down to the king's house into the chamber of the scribe. And there they were, all the princes sitting there: Elishama the scribe and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah and Elnathan the son of Achbor and Gemariah the son of Shaphan and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah and all the other princes.
And Micaiah told them all the words which he had heard when Baruch read in the book in the ears of the people.
Then all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, Take in your hand the scroll in which you read in the ears of the people and come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and came to them.
And they said to him, Sit down now and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears.
And when they heard all the words, they turned in fear one to another and said to Baruch, Indeed we must report all these words to the king.
And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us please, how did you write all these words? Was it from his mouth?
Then Baruch said to them, He read to me all these words from his mouth, and I wrote with ink in the book.
Then the princes said to Baruch, Go and hide, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are.
So they went to the king in the court, but they had deposited the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe; and they reported all the words in the ears of the king.
Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the king and in the ears of all the princes who stood by the king.
Now the king was sitting in the winter house in the ninth month, and the fire of the brazier was burning before him.
And as Jehudi would read three or four columns, the king would cut it with a scribe's knife and throw the pieces into the fire which was in the brazier, until the whole scroll was consumed in the fire which was in the brazier.
And the king and all his servants who heard all these words were not afraid and did not rend their garments.
Even when Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah urged the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them.
And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king's son and Seraiah the son of Azriel and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel to seize Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet, but Jehovah hid them.
And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the scroll and the words which Baruch had written from the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
Take again another scroll, and write on it all the former words that were on the first scroll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah burned.
And concerning Jehoiakim the king of Judah you shall say, Thus says Jehovah, You have burned this scroll, saying, Why have you written in it, saying, The king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land and will cause man and beast to cease from it?
Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning Jehoiakim the king of Judah, He will have no one to sit on the throne of David, and his corpse will be cast out to the heat by day and to the frost by night.
And I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity, and I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and on the men of Judah all the evil which I have spoken against them. But they would not listen.
Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the son of Neriah, the scribe, and he wrote on it from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim the king of Judah had burned in the fire; and many more words like those were added to them.