Therefore let us also, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, put away every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us and run with endurance the race which is set before us,
Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God.
For compare Him who has endured such contradiction by sinners against Himself, so that you may not grow weary, fainting in your souls.
You have not yet resisted unto blood, struggling against sin,
And you have completely forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with sons, "My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when reproved by Him;
For whom the Lord loves He disciplines, and He scourges every son whom He receives."
It is for discipline that you endure; God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the father does not discipline?
But if you are without discipline, of which all sons have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons.
Furthermore we have had the fathers of our flesh as discipliners and we respected them; shall we not much more be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live?
For they disciplined for a few days as it seemed good to them; but He, for what is profitable that we might partake of His holiness.
Now no discipline at the present time seems to be a matter of joy, but of grief; but afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been exercised by it.
Therefore set straight the hands which hang down and the paralyzed knees,
And make straight paths for your feet, that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather may be healed.
Pursue peace with all men and sanctification, without which no one will see the Lord;
Looking carefully lest anyone fall away from the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and through this many be defiled;
Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one meal gave up his own birthright.
For you know that also afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for repentance, even though he sought it with tears.
For you have not come forward to a mountain which could be touched and which was set on fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind,
And to the sound of a trumpet and to the voice of words, because of which those who heard entreated that no further word be spoken to them;
For they could not bear that which was being commanded: "If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned."
And so fearful was the sight, Moses said, "I am full of fear and trembling."
But you have come forward to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels, to the universal gathering;
And to the church of the firstborn, who have been enrolled in the heavens; and to God, the Judge of all; and to the spirits of righteous men who have been made perfect;
And to Jesus, the Mediator of a new covenant; and to the blood of sprinkling, which speaks something better than that of Abel.
See that you do not refuse Him who speaks, for if those did not escape who refused Him who warned them upon the earth, much more we shall not escape who turn away from Him who warns from heaven,
Whose voice at that time shook the earth but now has promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven."
And this word, "Yet once more," shows clearly the removal of the things being shaken as being of things having been made, that the things which are not shaken may remain.
Therefore receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us have grace, through which we may serve God well-pleasingly with piety and fear;
For our God is also a consuming fire.