Therefore we ought to give heed more abundantly to the things which have been heard lest perhaps we drift away.
For if the word spoken through angels proved firm and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense,
How shall we escape if we have neglected so great a salvation, which, having had its beginning in being spoken by the Lord, has been confirmed to us by those who heard,
God bearing witness with them both by signs and wonders and by various works of power and by distributions of the Holy Spirit according to His will?
For it was not to angels that He subjected the coming inhabited earth, concerning which we speak.
But one has solemnly testified somewhere, saying, "What is man, that You bring him to mind? Or the son of man, that You care for him?
You have made Him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned Him with glory and honor and have set Him over the works of Your hands;
You have subjected all things under His feet." For in subjecting all things to Him, He left nothing unsubject to Him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to Him,
But we see Jesus, who was made a little inferior to the angels because of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God He might taste death on behalf of everything.
For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things and through whom are all things, in leading many sons into glory, to make the Author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of One, for which cause He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
Saying, "I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the church I will sing hymns of praise to You."
And again, "I will trust in Him." And again, "Behold, I and the children whom God has given to Me."
Since therefore the children have shared in blood and flesh, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death He might destroy him who has the might of death, that is, the devil,
And might release those who because of the fear of death through all their life were held in slavery.
For assuredly it is not to angels that He gives help, but He gives help to the seed of Abraham.
Hence He should have been made like His brothers in all things that He might become a merciful and faithful High Priest in the things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
For being tempted in that which He Himself has suffered, He is able to help those who are being tempted.