Therefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us be brought on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith in God,
Of the teaching of baptisms and of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do if God permits.
For it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit
And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
And yet have fallen away, to renew themselves again unto repentance, crucifying again for themselves the Son of God and putting Him to open shame.
For the earth, which drinks the rain which often comes upon it and produces vegetation suitable to those for whose sake also it is cultivated, partakes of blessing from God.
But if it brings forth thorns and thistles, it is disapproved and near a curse, whose end is to be burned.
But we are persuaded of better things concerning you, beloved, and things which belong to salvation, though we speak thus.
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward His name in having ministered to the saints and in ministering still.
But we desire earnestly that each of you show the same diligence unto the full assurance of your hope until the end,
That you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and long-suffering are inheriting the promises.
For God, when He made the promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, swore by Himself,
Saying, "Surely blessing, I will bless you; and multiplying, I will multiply you."
And thus when Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
For men swear by the greater, and for all disputes among them an oath is final for confirmation.
Therefore God, intending to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, interposed with an oath,
In order that by two unchangeable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, we who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us,
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, both secure and firm and which enters within the veil,
Where the Forerunner, Jesus, has entered for us, having become forever a High Priest according to the order of Melchizedek.