Now then the first covenant also had ordinances of service, and its sanctuary was of this world.
For a tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which were the lampstand and the table and the loaves that were set forth, which is called the Holy Place;
And after the second veil, a tabernacle, which is called the Holy of Holies,
Having a golden altar and the Ark of the Covenant covered about everywhere with gold, in which were the golden pot that had the manna and Aaron's rod that budded and the tablets of the covenant,
And above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the expiation cover, concerning which it is not now the time to speak in detail.
Now these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle the priests enter continually, accomplishing their worship;
But into the second, only the high priest enters, once a year and not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of ignorance of the people,
The Holy Spirit thus making this clear, that the way of the Holy of Holies has not yet been manifested while the first tabernacle still has its standing,
Which is a figure for the present time. According to this tabernacle both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are unable to perfect, according to conscience, him who worships,
Consisting only of foods and drinks and various washings, being ordinances of the flesh, imposed until the time of setting things right.
But Christ, having come as a High Priest of the good things that have come into being, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made by hands, that is, not of this creation,
And not through the blood of goats and calves but through His own blood, entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, obtaining an eternal redemption.
For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who are defiled sanctify to the purity of the flesh,
How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And because of this He is the Mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those who have been called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
For where there is a testament, the death of him who made the testament must of necessity be established.
For a testament is confirmed in the case of the dead, since it never has force when he who made the testament is living.
Hence neither was the first covenant initiated without blood;
For when every commandment according to the law had been spoken by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll of the covenant itself and all the people,
Saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded to you."
And both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service he sprinkled in like manner with the blood.
And almost all things are purified by blood according to the law, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness.
It was necessary therefore for the examples of the things in the heavens to be purified by these, but the heavenly things themselves, by better sacrifices than these.
For Christ did not enter into a holy place made by hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself, to appear now before the face of God for us;
Nor in order that He might offer Himself often, just as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies year by year by the blood of other creatures;
Since then He would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the consummation of the ages He has been manifested for the putting away of sin through the sacrifice of Himself.
And inasmuch as it is reserved for men to die once, and after this comes judgment,
So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time to those who eagerly await Him, apart from sin, unto salvation.