But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need for anything to be written to you;
For you yourselves know perfectly well that like a thief in the night, so the day of the Lord comes.
When they say, Peace and security, then sudden destruction comes upon them, just as birth pangs to a woman with child; and they shall by no means escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness that the day should overtake you like a thief;
For you are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
So then let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober.
For those who sleep, sleep during the night, and those who get drunk are drunk during the night;
But since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
For God did not appoint us to wrath but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
Who died for us in order that whether we watch or sleep, we may live together with Him.
Therefore comfort one another, and build up each one the other, even as you also do.
Furthermore we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you and take the lead among you in the Lord and admonish you,
And to regard them most highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
And we exhort you, brothers, Admonish the disorderly, console the fainthearted, sustain the weak, be long-suffering toward all.
See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always pursue what is good both for one another and for all.
Always rejoice,
Unceasingly pray,
In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
Do not quench the Spirit;
Do not despise prophecies,
But prove all things. Hold fast to what is good;
Abstain from every kind of evil.
And the God of peace Himself sanctify you wholly, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it.
Brothers, pray also for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.