And He rose up from there and came into the borders of Judea and beyond the Jordan; and again crowds came together to Him, and as He was accustomed, again He taught them.
And some Pharisees came and asked Him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife, so as to tempt Him.
And He answered and said to them, What did Moses command you?
And they said, Moses allowed us to write a certificate of divorce and divorce her.
And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart he wrote this commandment for you.
But from the beginning of creation, He made them male and female.
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife;
And the two shall be one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore what God has yoked together, let man not separate.
And in the house the disciples questioned Him again concerning this.
And He said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her.
And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
And they brought little children to Him so that He might touch them, but the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus, seeing it, was indignant and said to them, Allow the little children to come to Me. Do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child shall by no means enter into it.
And taking them into His arms, He fervently blessed them, laying His hands on them.
And as He went out into the road, someone ran to Him and kneeling before Him asked Him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One--God.
You know the commandments: "Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother."
And he said to Him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth.
And Jesus, looking upon him, was moved with love for him and said to him, One thing you lack: go; the things you have, sell and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.
And at the word his countenance fell, and he went away sorrowing, for he had many possessions.
And Jesus, looking around, said to His disciples, How difficult it will be for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
And the disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus again answered and said to them, Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
But they were astonished beyond measure and said among themselves, Then who can be saved?
Looking upon them, Jesus said, With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God.
Peter began to say to Him, Behold, we have left all and followed You.
Jesus said, Truly I say to you, There is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for My sake and for the gospel's sake,
But that he shall receive a hundred times as much now at this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, with persecutions, and in the coming age, eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
Now they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus led the way before them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And He took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that were about to happen to Him:
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and to the scribes. And they will condemn Him to death and deliver Him to the Gentiles,
And they will mock Him and spit at Him and scourge Him, and they will kill Him. And after three days He will rise.
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying to Him, Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask You.
And He said to them, What do you want Me to do for you?
And they said to Him, Grant to us to sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your glory.
But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?
And they said to Him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup which I drink you shall drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you shall be baptized.
But to sit on My right or on My left is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.
And when the ten heard this, they began to be indignant concerning James and John.
And Jesus called them to Him and said to them, You know that those who are esteemed as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
But it is not so among you; but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant,
And whoever wants to be first among you shall be the slave of all.
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
And they came to Jericho. And as He was going out from Jericho, as well as His disciples and a large crowd, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, sat by the road.
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And many rebuked him so that he would be silent, but he cried out much more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And Jesus, standing still, said, Call him here. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take courage. Rise. He is calling you.
And throwing his garment aside, he leaped up and came to Jesus.
And Jesus answered him and said, What do you want Me to do for you? And the blind man said to Him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight!
And Jesus said to him, Go; your faith has healed you. And immediately he received his sight and followed Him on the road.