And He began to speak to them in parables: A man planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it and dug a vat for a winepress and built a tower; and he leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad.
And he sent a slave to the vinedressers at the proper time so that from the vinedressers he might take of the fruit of the vineyard.
And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
And again he sent to them another slave; and that one they struck on the head and dishonored.
And he sent another, and that one they killed; and so with many others, beating some and killing others.
He had yet one, a beloved son; he sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son.
But those vinedressers said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours!
And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
What then will the master of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.
Have you not even read this Scripture, "The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner.
This was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes"?
And they sought to seize Him, yet they feared the crowd, for they perceived that it was with them in view that He spoke the parable. And leaving Him, they went away.
And they sent to Him some of the Pharisees and Herodians that they might catch Him in His speech.
And they came and said to Him, Teacher, we know that You are true and do not fear anyone, for You do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? Should we give, or should we not give?
But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you tempt Me? Bring Me a denarius that I may look at it.
And they brought one. And He said to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to Him, Caesar's.
And Jesus said to them, The things that are Caesar's render to Caesar, and the things that are God's to God. And they marveled greatly at Him.
And some Sadducees came to Him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they questioned Him, saying,
Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if anyone's brother dies and leaves a wife behind and leaves no child, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed to his brother.
There were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and when he died, he left no seed;
And the second took her and died, leaving behind no seed; and the third similarly;
And the seven left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.
Jesus said to them, Is it not because of this that you err, that you do not know the Scriptures nor the power of God?
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in the heavens.
But concerning the dead, that they are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the section concerning the thornbush, how God spoke to him, saying, "I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob"?
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You err greatly.
And one of the scribes approached and heard them disputing; and perceiving that He answered them well, he questioned Him, Which is the first commandment of all?
Jesus answered, The first is: "Hear, Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord;
And you shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul and from your whole mind and from your whole strength."
The second is this: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." There is no other commandment greater than these.
And the scribe said to Him, Well said, Teacher; in truth You have said that He is one and there is not another besides Him;
And to love Him from the whole heart and from the whole understanding and from the whole strength and to love one's neighbor as himself is much more than all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
And Jesus, seeing that he answered intelligently, said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to question Him anymore.
And Jesus, while He was teaching in the temple, answered and said, How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
David himself said in the Holy Spirit, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet."
David himself calls Him Lord, and how is He his son? And the great crowd heard Him gladly.
And in His teaching He said, Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and like greetings in the marketplaces
And chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at the dinners,
Who devour the widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater judgment.
And He sat down opposite the treasury and watched how the crowd cast money into the treasury. And many rich people cast in much.
And one poor widow came and cast in two lepta, which is a quadrans.
And He called His disciples to Him and said to them, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has cast in more than all those who were casting into the treasury,
For they all cast in out of their surplus, but she, out of her lack, has cast in all that she had, her whole living.