And he showed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb in the middle of its street.
And on this side and on that side of the river was the tree of life, producing twelve fruits, yielding its fruit each month; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.
And there will no longer be a curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His slaves will serve Him;
And they will see His face, and His name will be on their foreheads.
And night will be no more; and they have no need of the light of a lamp and of the light of the sun, for the Lord God will shine upon them; and they will reign forever and ever.
And he said to me, These words are faithful and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent His angel to show to His slaves the things which must quickly take place.
And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
And I John am he who hears and sees these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
And he said to me, Do not do that! I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers the prophets and of those who keep the words of this scroll. Worship God.
And he said to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for the time is near.
Let him who does unrighteousness do unrighteousness still; and let him who is filthy be filthy still; and let him who is righteous do righteousness still; and let him who is holy be holy still.
Behold, I come quickly, and My reward is with Me to render to each one as his work is.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Blessed are those who wash their robes that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter by the gates into the city.
Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and makes a lie.
I Jesus have sent My angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright morning star.
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come! And let him who hears say, Come! And let him who is thirsty come; let him who wills take the water of life freely.
I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this scroll;
And if anyone takes away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and out of the holy city, which are written in this scroll.
He who testifies these things says, Yes, I come quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all the saints. Amen.