And I saw on the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed up with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?
And no one in heaven nor on the earth nor under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it.
And I wept much because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or look into it.
And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome so that He may open the scroll and its seven seals.
And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders a Lamb standing as having just been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
And He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne.
And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell before the Lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which bowls are the prayers of the saints.
And they sing a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for You were slain and have purchased for God by Your blood men out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
And have made them a kingdom and priests to our God; and they will reign on the earth.
And I saw, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living creatures and of the elders, and their number was ten thousands of ten thousands and thousands of thousands,
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who has been slain to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them, I heard saying, To Him who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.
And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.