In like manner, wives, be subject to your own husbands, that even if any disobey the word, they will be gained without the word through the manner of life of their wives,
Seeing with their own eyes your pure manner of life in fear.
Let your adorning not be the outward plaiting of hair and putting on of gold or clothing with garments,
But the hidden man of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of a meek and quiet spirit, which is very costly in the sight of God.
For in this manner formerly the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being subject to their own husbands,
As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; whose children you have become, if you do good and do not fear any terror.
Husbands, in like manner dwell together with them according to knowledge, as with the weaker, female vessel, assigning honor to them as also to fellow heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered.
And finally be all of the same mind, sympathetic, loving the brothers, tenderhearted, humble-minded;
Not rendering evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary blessing one another, because you were called to this, that you might inherit blessing.
For "he who desires to love life and see good days, let him cause his tongue to cease from evil and his lips to speak no guile.
And let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it;
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears incline to their petition; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil."
And who will harm you if you become zealous for what is good?
But even if you suffer because of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not be afraid with fear from them, nor be troubled,
But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, being always ready for a defense to everyone who asks of you an account concerning the hope which is in you,
Yet with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, so that in the matter in which you are spoken against, those who revile your good manner of life in Christ may be put to shame.
For it is better, if the will of God should will it, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
For Christ also has suffered once for sins, the Righteous on behalf of the unrighteous, that He might bring you to God, on the one hand being put to death in the flesh, but on the other, made alive in the Spirit;
In which also He went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
Who had formerly disobeyed when the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared; entering into which, a few, that is, eight souls, were brought safely through by water.
Which water, as the antitype, also now saves you, that is, baptism, not a putting away of the filth of the flesh but the appeal of a good conscience unto God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
Who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being subjected to Him.