The burden concerning Egypt: / See, Jehovah is riding upon a swift cloud, / And He is coming to Egypt. / And the idols of Egypt will quiver at His presence, / And the heart of the Egyptians will melt within them.
Thus I will spur on Egyptian against Egyptian; / And each will fight against his brother, and each against his neighbor, / City against city, and kingdom against kingdom.
The spirit of the Egyptians will fail within them, / And their counsel I will swallow up; / Then they will seek after idols and mediums, / And after spirits of the dead and familiar spirits.
And I will shut the Egyptians up under the hand of hard masters, / And a mighty king will rule over them, / Declares the Lord Jehovah of hosts.
And the waters from the sea will be dried up, / And the river will be desolate and dry.
The river canals will stink; / The streams of Egypt's Nile will diminish and be desolate. / The reeds and rushes will rot;
The plants at the Nile, at the mouth of the Nile, / And every place sown by the Nile / Will dry up, be driven away, and be no more.
The fishermen will mourn; / And all who cast the hook into the Nile will lament; / And those who spread nets upon the waters will languish.
Moreover, those who work with combed flax will be confounded, / As well as those who weave linen.
And the pillars of the land will be crushed, / And every wage worker will be sullen in soul.
Mere fools are the princes of Zoan; / The counsel of the wisest of Pharaoh's counselors has become stupidity. / How can you say to Pharaoh, / I am a son of the wise men, a son of ancient kings?
Where are they? Where are your wise men? / Let them tell you and let them know / What Jehovah of hosts has purposed against Egypt.
The princes of Zoan have become fools; the princes of Memphis are beguiled; / They have misled Egypt, who are the cornerstone of her tribes.
Jehovah has mixed within her a spirit of distortings, / And they have misled Egypt in all that it does, / As a drunken man staggers in his vomit.
And there will be no work for Egypt, / Which the head or the tail, the palm branch or the marsh reed, may do.
In that day the Egyptians will be like women, and they will tremble and be in dread before the waving of the hand of Jehovah of hosts, which He will be waving over them.
And the land of Judah will become a source of crazed terror to Egypt--everyone to whom it is mentioned will be in dread of it because of the purpose of Jehovah of hosts, which He purposes against them.
In that day five cities in the land of Egypt will be speaking the language of Canaan and swearing to Jehovah of hosts; one will be called the City of Destruction.
In that day there will be an altar to Jehovah in the midst of the land of Egypt and a pillar to Jehovah near its border;
And it will become a sign and a testimony to Jehovah of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they will cry unto Jehovah because of their oppressors, and He will send them a Savior and Mighty One; and He will deliver them.
And Jehovah will make Himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know Jehovah in that day; they will worship Him with sacrifice and offering and will vow a vow to Jehovah and accomplish it.
And Jehovah will strike Egypt, striking yet healing; and they will turn to Jehovah, and He will be entreated of by them and will heal them.
In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrians will come to Egypt, and the Egyptians to Assyria; and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians.
In that day Israel will be the third party with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the land,
With which Jehovah of hosts will bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt My people and Assyria the work of My hands and Israel My inheritance.