Then Jehovah said to me, Take a large tablet and write on it in plain letters, For Maher-shalal-hash-baz;
And I will take faithful witnesses, Urijah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.
And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. And Jehovah said to me, Call his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz,
For before this boy knows how to call, Father, and, Mother, they will carry off the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria before the king of Assyria.
Then Jehovah spoke further to me, saying,
Because these people have rejected / The gently flowing waters of Shiloah, and exult / In Rezin and the son of Remaliah,
Now therefore the Lord is bringing up upon them / The mighty and abundant waters of the Euphrates, / The king of Assyria and all his glory; / And it will overflow all its channels, / And go over all its banks.
It will sweep through Judah; it will overflow and rise / Until it reaches the neck; / And the spreading out of its wings / Will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel.
Be broken, O peoples, and be shattered; / Hearken, all you distant places of the earth: / Gird yourselves, yet be shattered; / Gird yourselves, yet be shattered.
Take counsel, yet it will be frustrated; / Speak the word, yet it will not stand; / For God is with us.
For Jehovah spoke to me in this way with great force and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying,
You shall not call it conspiracy / All that this people calls conspiracy; / And you shall not fear what they fear nor hold it in awe.
You shall sanctify Jehovah of hosts; / He shall be the One to fear and He shall be the One to hold in awe.
Then He will become a sanctuary, yet a stone to strike against / And a rock of stumbling / To both houses of Israel, / A trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And many will stumble at these, / And will fall and be broken to pieces, / And will be snared and taken captive.
Bind up the testimony; seal the instruction among my disciples;
And I will wait on Jehovah, who hides His face from the house of Jacob, and I will look eagerly for Him.
See, I and the children whom Jehovah has given me are for signs and wonders in Israel from Jehovah of hosts, who abides on Mount Zion.
When they say to you, Inquire of the necromancers and the familiar spirits, who twitter and mutter; say to them, Should not a people inquire of their God? Should they go to the dead on behalf of the living--
To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this word, it is because in them there is no dawn.
And they go through it hard-pressed and hungry; and when they are hungry, they rage and curse their king and their God. They turn their faces upward,
And they look to the earth, but there is only distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish and being thrust into darkness.