In the seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came through Haggai the prophet, saying,
Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not as nothing in your eyes?
Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, declares Jehovah; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, all you people of the land, declares Jehovah, and work; for I am with you, declares Jehovah of hosts.
Both the word which I covenanted with you when you came forth from Egypt and My Spirit endure among you; do not fear.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, Yet once more--it is but a little while--I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land;
And I will shake all the nations, and the Desire of all the nations will come; and I will fill this house with glory, says Jehovah of hosts.
The silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine, declares Jehovah of hosts.
The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former, says Jehovah of hosts; and in this place I will give peace, declares Jehovah of hosts.
In the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came to Haggai the prophet, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Ask now the priests for instruction, saying,
If one carries holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt he touches bread or boiled food or wine or oil or any other food, will it become holy? And the priests answered and said, No.
Then Haggai said, If one who is unclean because of a corpse touches any of these, will it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It will be unclean.
Then Haggai answered and said, So is this people and so is this nation before Me, declares Jehovah, and so is all the work of their hands. Thus what they offer there is unclean.
And now, consider from this day and previously, before a stone was set upon a stone in the temple of Jehovah,
Before these days were, someone would come to a grain heap for twenty measures, and there would be only ten; someone would come to a vat to draw fifty troughfuls, and there would be only twenty.
I struck you with blight and with mildew and with hail on all the work of your hands; but on your part, none turned to Me, declares Jehovah.
Consider from this day and previously, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day when the foundation of the temple of Jehovah was laid; consider.
Is there yet seed in the barn? Indeed even the vine and the fig tree and the pomegranate and the olive tree have not borne fruit; from this day I will bless you.
And the word of Jehovah came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying,
Speak to Zerubbabel the governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth.
And I will overthrow the throne of the kingdoms and will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots and their riders, and the horses and their riders will go down, each by the sword of his brother.
In that day, declares Jehovah of hosts, I will take you, O Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, My servant, declares Jehovah, and make you as a signet; for I have chosen you, declares Jehovah of hosts.