And on the third day Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the inner court of the king's house, in front of the king's house. And the king was sitting on his royal throne in the royal house, opposite the entrance to the house.
And when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight. And the king held out to Esther his scepter of gold, which was in his hand; and Esther drew near and touched the top of the scepter.
Then the king said to her, What troubles you, Queen Esther? And what is your request? It shall be given to you, even to the half of the kingdom.
And Esther said, If it please the king, let the king and Haman come today to the banquet I have prepared for him.
Then the king said, Bring Haman quickly, so that we may do as Esther says. And the king and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
And the king said to Esther during the banquet of wine, What is your petition? And it shall be granted to you. And what is your request? Even to the half of the kingdom it shall be done.
Then Esther answered and said, My petition and my request is this:
If I have found favor in the king's sight, and if it please the king to grant my petition and do what I request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I will prepare for them; and tomorrow I will do as the king says.
And Haman went out that day joyful and glad in heart; but when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate and that he did not arise or tremble because of him, Haman was filled with anger against Mordecai.
But Haman restrained himself and went to his house. And he sent word and had his friends and Zeresh his wife brought to him.
And Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches and the multitude of his children and all the things in which the king had promoted him and how he had advanced him above the princes and the king's servants.
Haman also said, Even Esther the queen let no one come with the king to the banquet that she had prepared except me, and tomorrow also I am invited by her, together with the king.
Yet all this means to me nothing as long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting in the king's gate.
Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and in the morning ask the king to have Mordecai hanged on it; then go with the king to the banquet rejoicing. And the word seemed good to Haman, and he had the gallows made.