On that night the king could not sleep, so he gave orders to bring the book of the records of the chronicles; and they were read before the king.
And it was found written that Mordecai had given a report concerning Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, among those who were in charge of the threshold, who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus.
And the king said, What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this? Then the king's servants who attended him said, Nothing has been done for him.
And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman had just entered the outer court of the king's house to speak to the king about hanging Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
And the king's servants said to him, Haman is now standing in the court. And the king said, Let him come in.
So Haman came in; and the king said to him, What shall be done for the man whom the king desires to honor? Now Haman said in his heart, Whom would the king desire to honor more than me?
And Haman said to the king, For the man whom the king desires to honor,
Let a royal robe be brought, one which the king has worn, and a horse on which the king has ridden and on whose head a royal crown has been set.
And let the robe and the horse be delivered into the hand of one of the king's most noble princes; and let them array the man whom the king desires to honor and make him ride on horseback through the street of the city; and let them proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done for the man whom the king desires to honor.
Then the king said to Haman, Quickly take the robe and the horse, as you have said, and do so to Mordecai the Jew, who sits in the king's gate. Let nothing fail of all that you have said.
Then Haman took the robe and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and made him ride through the street of the city; and he proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done for the man whom the king desires to honor.
And Mordecai returned to the king's gate. But Haman hurried to his house, mourning and with his head covered.
And Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and to all his friends all that had happened to him. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of the seed of the Jews, you will not prevail against him; but you shall surely fall before him.
While they were still talking with him, the king's eunuchs arrived and hurriedly brought Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.