Now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the king's commandment and his decree were about to be executed, on the day that the Jews' enemies hoped to rule over them (but it turned out to the contrary, so that the Jews had rule over them that hated them),
The Jews assembled in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay hand on those who sought their harm. And no one could withstand them, for the fear of them had fallen upon all the peoples.
And all the princes of the provinces and the satraps and the governors and those who did the king's business helped the Jews, because the fear of Mordecai had fallen upon them.
For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame went forth throughout all the provinces; for the man Mordecai became greater and greater.
And the Jews struck all their enemies with the stroke of the sword and with slaughter and destruction, and they did as it pleased them to those who hated them.
And in Susa the capital the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred men.
And Parshandatha and Dalphon and Aspatha
And Poratha and Adalia and Aridatha
And Parmashta and Arisai and Aridai and Vaizatha,
The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Jew's enemy, they slew; but they did not lay their hand on the spoil.
On that day the number of those who were slain in Susa the capital was brought before the king.
And the king said to Esther the queen, The Jews have slain and destroyed five hundred men in Susa the capital as well as the ten sons of Haman. What then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your petition? And it shall be granted to you. Or what is your further request? And it shall be done.
Then Esther said, If it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews who are in Susa to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows.
And the king commanded it to be so done; and a decree was issued in Susa, and they hanged Haman's ten sons.
And the Jews who were in Susa assembled also on the fourteenth day of the month Adar and slew three hundred men in Susa, but they did not lay their hand on the spoil.
And the rest of the Jews who were in the king's provinces assembled and stood for their lives, and they had rest from their enemies. And they slew seventy-five thousand of those who hated them; but they did not lay their hand on the spoil.
This happened on the thirteenth day of the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of the same they rested and made it a day of feasting and rejoicing.
But the Jews who were in Susa assembled on the thirteenth day of the month and on the fourteenth of the month; and on the fifteenth day of the same they rested and made it a day of feasting and rejoicing.
Therefore the Jews of the villages, who dwell in towns in the open, make the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of rejoicing and feasting, and a good day, and a day of sending portions to one another.
And Mordecai wrote these things down, and he sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, both near and far,
Enjoining them that they should keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar and the fifteenth day of the same, year by year,
As the days on which the Jews had rest from their enemies, and as the month which was turned for them from sorrow to rejoicing and from mourning into a good day; that they should make them days of feasting and rejoicing, and of sending portions to one another and gifts to the poor.
And the Jews undertook what they had begun to do and what Mordecai had written to them to do.
For Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to destroy them and had cast Pur, that is, the lot, to vex them and destroy them;
But when Esther came before the king, he commanded by letter that his wicked plot, which he had plotted against the Jews, should return upon his own head and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
Therefore they called these days Purim, after the name of Pur. Therefore because of all the words of this letter and what they had seen in this regard and what had happened to them,
The Jews established and made a custom for themselves and their seed and all who joined themselves to them, that they would not fail to keep these two days according to what has been written about them and according to the appointed time for them, year by year;
And that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim should not fail from among the Jews, nor the remembrance of them fade from their seed.
Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim.
And he sent letters to all the Jews, to the one hundred twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, that is, words of peace and truth,
Establishing these days of Purim at their appointed times, as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had established for them and as they had established for themselves and for their seed in the matter of the fastings and their cry.
And the commandment of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and it was written in the book.