Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
Who gave Himself for our sins that He might rescue us out of the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
I marvel that you are so quickly removing from Him who has called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
Which is not another gospel, only there are some who trouble you and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But if even we or an angel out of heaven should announce to you a gospel beyond that which we have announced to you, let him be accursed.
As we have said before, now also I say again, If anyone announces to you a gospel beyond that which you have received, let him be accursed.
For am I now trying to win the assent of men or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
For I make known to you, brothers, concerning the gospel announced by me, that it is not according to man.
For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
For you have heard of my manner of life formerly in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God excessively and ravaged it.
And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being more abundantly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia and again returned to Damascus.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I remained with him fifteen days.
But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord.
Now concerning the things which I am writing to you, behold, before God, I am not lying.
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
Yet I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which are in Christ.
But they only heard this: He who was formerly persecuting us is now announcing as the gospel the faith which formerly he ravaged.
And they glorified God because of me.