Now in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth of the month, while I was among the captives by the river Chebar, the heavens were opened and I saw visions of God.
On the fifth of the month (it was the fifth year of King Jehoiachin's captivity)
The word of Jehovah came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of Jehovah was upon him there.
And I looked, and there came a storm wind from the north, a great cloud and a fire flashing incessantly; and there was a brightness around it, and from the midst of it there was something like the sight of electrum, from the midst of the fire.
And from the midst of it there came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: They had the likeness of a man.
And every one had four faces, and every one of them had four wings.
And their feet were straight feet, and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot; and they sparkled like the sight of burnished bronze.
And the hands of a man were under their wings on their four sides. And the four of them had their faces and their wings thus:
Their wings were joined one to another; they did not turn as they went; each went straight forward.
As for the likeness of their faces, they had the face of a man; and the four of them had the face of a lion on the right side, and the four of them had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four of them had the face of an eagle.
And thus their faces were. And their wings were spread out upward; two wings of each were joined one to another, and two covered their bodies.
And each went straight forward; wherever the Spirit was to go, they went; they did not turn as they went.
As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches; the fire went to and fro among the living creatures, and the fire was bright; and out of the fire went forth lightning.
And the living creatures ran to and fro like the appearance of a lightning bolt.
And as I watched the living creatures, I saw a wheel upon the earth beside the living creatures, for each of their four faces.
The appearance of the wheels and their workmanship were like the sight of beryl. And the four of them had one likeness; that is, their appearance and their workmanship were as it were a wheel within a wheel.
Whenever they went, they went in their four directions; they did not turn as they went.
As for their rims, they were high and they were awesome; and the rims of the four of them were full of eyes all around.
And whenever the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and whenever the living creatures were lifted up above the earth, the wheels were lifted up also.
Wherever the Spirit was to go, they went--wherever the Spirit was to go. And the wheels were lifted up alongside them, for the Spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.
Whenever those went, these went; and whenever those stood still, these stood still; and whenever those were lifted up above the earth, the wheels were lifted up alongside them; for the Spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.
And over the heads of the living creature there was the likeness of an expanse, like the sight of awesome crystal, stretched forth over their heads above.
And under the expanse one pair of their wings went straight out, one toward the other; each had another pair covering their bodies on this side and on that side.
And I heard the sound of their wings, like the sound of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, as they went; it was the sound of a tumult, like the sound of an army. Whenever they stood still, they dropped their wings.
And there was a voice from above the expanse that was over their heads. When they stood still, they dropped their wings.
And above the expanse that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, like the appearance of a sapphire stone; and upon the likeness of the throne was One in appearance like a man, above it.
Then I saw something like the sight of electrum, like the appearance of fire encased all around, from the appearance of His loins and upward; and from the appearance of His loins and downward, I saw something like the appearance of fire. And there was brightness all around Him.
Like the appearance of the rainbow that is in the cloud on a day of rain, such was the appearance of the brightness all around. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Jehovah. And when I saw it, I fell on my face and I heard the voice of someone speaking.