Then the word of Jehovah came to me, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, saying,
Son of man, write down the name of the day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day.
And utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Put on a pot--put it on; / And also pour water into it;
Gather into it its pieces, / Every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; / Fill it with choice bones.
Take the choice of the flock, / And also put a pile of wood under it; / Bring it to a vigorous boil; / Indeed let its bones be boiled in it.
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the bloody city, to the pot in which there is rust and whose rust has not gone out of it! Take its pieces out of it piece by piece; no lot has fallen upon it.
For her blood was within her; she put it on a bare rock; she did not pour it upon the ground to cover it with dust.
In order to stir up wrath, to take vengeance, I have set her blood upon a bare rock, so that it might not be covered.
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the bloody city! I will also make the pile great.
Heap on the wood, light the fire, boil the meat well, and mix in spices, and let the bones be burned.
Then stand it empty upon its coals, so that it may get hot and its bronze may glow, so that its filthiness may be burned away in it and its rust may be consumed.
She has wearied herself with toil, yet her great rust has not gone out of her. Let her rust be in the fire.
Because of your lewd filthiness--because I tried to cleanse you, but you did not get clean, you shall not be cleansed from your filthiness anymore, until I have caused My wrath toward you to rest.
I, Jehovah, have spoken. The time is coming, and I will do it; I will not refrain, nor will I spare, nor will I repent. According to your ways and according to your doings I will judge you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, I am about to take away the delight of your eyes from you with a blow. Yet you shall neither mourn nor weep, nor shall your tears come.
Groan silently; make no mourning for the dead; bind your turban upon you, and put your sandals upon your feet, and do not cover your lips, and do not eat the bread of men.
So I spoke to the people in the morning, and in the evening my wife died. And in the morning I did as I was commanded.
And the people said to me, Will you not tell us what these things you are doing signify to us?
So I said to them, The word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Speak to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will profane My sanctuary, the pride of your strength, the delight of your eyes, and that which your soul longs after; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind will fall by the sword.
And you will do as I have done; you shall not cover your lips, nor shall you eat the bread of men.
And your turbans shall be upon your heads, and your sandals, upon your feet; you shall not mourn nor weep, but you shall rot away in your iniquities and groan one to another.
Thus Ezekiel will be a sign to you. You shall do just as all he has done. And when it comes, you will know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
As for you, son of man, surely on the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and what they have set their heart on, their sons and their daughters,
On that day one who has escaped will come to you to report it in your ears.
On that day your mouth will be opened to the one who has escaped, and you shall speak and no longer be dumb. So you shall become a sign to them, and they will know that I am Jehovah.