Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face against the children of Ammon and prophesy concerning them.
And you shall say to the children of Ammon, Hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you said, Aha! against My sanctuary when it was desecrated, and against the land of Israel when it was desolated, and against the house of Judah when it went off into exile;
Therefore I am about to deliver you up to the children of the east to be dispossessed, and they will set up their encampments among you and put their dwellings among you. It is they who will eat your fruit and drink your milk.
And I will make Rabbah pasture land for camels and the cities of the children of Ammon folds for flocks, and you will know that I am Jehovah.
For thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and rejoiced with all the malice within you against the land of Israel,
Therefore now I have stretched out My hand against you, and I will deliver you as booty to the nations and cut you off from the peoples and destroy you from the lands; I will destroy you that you may know that I am Jehovah.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because Moab has said, Look, the house of Judah is just like all the other nations!
Therefore I am about to open up the flank of Moab, taking cities from the cities on its frontier, the pride of the land, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, even to Kiriathaim.
I will also deliver it along with the children of Ammon to the children of the east to be dispossessed, so that the children of Ammon might not be remembered among the nations.
So I will execute judgments against Moab that they may know that I am Jehovah.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because Edom has acted full of vengeance against the house of Judah and has incurred serious guilt by taking vengeance on them,
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also stretch out My hand against Edom and cut off from them man and beast and make it a desolation. From Teman even to Dedan they will fall by the sword.
And I will inflict My vengeance upon Edom by the hand of My people Israel, and they shall act in Edom according to My anger and My wrath. Then they will know My vengeance, declares the Lord Jehovah.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because the Philistines have acted in vengeance and have been full of vengeance acting with malice within them to destroy with a perpetual enmity,
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, I am about to stretch out My hand against the Philistines and cut off the Cherethites and destroy the remnant of the seashore.
And I will execute a great vengeance upon them with chastisements of wrath that they may know that I am Jehovah, when I have inflicted My vengeance on them.