Then He said to me, Son of man, eat what you find; eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel.
So I opened my mouth, and He gave me that scroll to eat.
And He said to me, Son of man, feed your stomach and fill your inward parts with this scroll that I am giving you. And I ate it, and it was like honey in my mouth in its sweetness.
Then He said to me, Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with My words to them.
For you are being sent not to a people of strange speech and unintelligible language but to the house of Israel,
Not to many peoples of strange speech and unintelligible language, whose words you cannot understand. If I were to send you to such, they would hear you;
But the house of Israel is not willing to hear you, for they are not willing to hear Me, because all the house of Israel is obstinate and stiff-hearted.
I am now making your face as hard as their faces and your forehead as hard as their foreheads.
Like adamant, harder than flint, I am making your forehead; do not be afraid of them or dismayed at their faces, for they are a rebellious house.
Moreover He said to me, Son of man, all My words that I will speak to you take into your heart and hear with your ears.
And go to those of the captivity, to the children of your people, and speak to them and tell them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah; whether they hear or not.
Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the sound of a great quaking, saying: Blessed be the glory of Jehovah from His place!
And I heard the sound of the wings of the living creatures touching one another and the sound of the wheels alongside them and the sound of a great quaking.
And the Spirit lifted me up and took me away; and I went in bitterness, in the rage of my spirit, and the hand of Jehovah was strong upon me.
And I came to those of the captivity at Tel-abib who dwelt by the river Chebar; and where they dwelt, there I sat for seven days in their midst appalled.
And at the end of seven days the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, I have appointed you as a watchman to the house of Israel, and you will hear the word from My mouth and will give them warnings from Me.
When I say to a wicked one, You shall surely die, and you do not warn him nor speak to warn the wicked one from his wicked way that he may live, that wicked one will die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Yet if you warn the wicked one and he does not turn from his wickedness nor from his wicked way, he will die for his iniquity and you have delivered your soul.
And when a righteous one turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, and I put a stumbling block before him, he will die. Because you did not warn him, he will die in his sin, and his righteous actions, which he had done, will not be remembered; but his blood I will require at your hand.
And if you warn a righteous one so that the righteous one does not sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he was warned; and you have delivered your soul.
And the hand of Jehovah was upon me there; and He said to me, Arise, go forth to the plain, and there I will speak with you.
So I arose and went forth to the plain. And the glory of Jehovah stood there, like the glory that I had seen by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
Then the Spirit entered into me and caused me to stand up on my feet; and He spoke with me and said to me, Go, shut yourself up within your house.
As for you, son of man, they will now put ropes on you and bind you with them so that you cannot go out among them.
And I will make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth so that you will be dumb and not one who reproves them, for they are a rebellious house.
But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you will say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Let him who hears hear, and let him who refuses refuse; for they are a rebellious house.