The word of Jehovah came to me again, saying,
Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah / Howl! Alas for the day!
For the day has drawn near, even the day of Jehovah has drawn near; / It will be a day of clouds, a time of doom for the nations.
And a sword will come upon Egypt, / And anguish will be in Ethiopia, / When the slain will fall in Egypt; / And they will take away her multitude, / And her foundations will be broken down.
Ethiopia, Put, Lud, all Arabia, Libya, and the children of the land of the covenant will fall by the sword with them.
Thus says Jehovah, Those who support Egypt will fall, / And the pride of her strength will come down; / They will fall by the sword within her, / From Migdol to Syene, / Declares the Lord Jehovah.
And they will be desolate in the midst of desolate countries, and her cities will be the most desolate among ruined cities.
And they will know that I am Jehovah, when I have set fire to Egypt and all her helpers are destroyed.
In that day messengers will go forth from before Me in ships to make the confident Ethiopians afraid, and there will be anguish among them just as on the day of Egypt. For indeed it comes.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon.
He and his people with him, the most ruthless of the nations, will be brought in to destroy the land, and they will draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain.
And I will make the Nile streams dry and sell the land into the hands of evil men, and I will make the land and all that is in it desolate by the hand of strangers. I, Jehovah, have spoken.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, I will also destroy the idols, and I will make an end of the images from Memphis; and a prince from the land of Egypt will never again arise; and I will put fear into the land of Egypt.
And I will make Pathros desolate and set fire to Zoan and execute judgments on Thebes.
And I will pour out My wrath upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude in Thebes.
And I will set fire to Egypt; Sin will writhe in anguish, and Thebes will be breached, and Memphis will have adversaries daily.
The young men of On and Pi-beseth will fall by the sword, and these cities will go into captivity.
At Tahpanhes also the day will withdraw itself, when I will break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her strength will cease in her; she will be covered with a cloud, and her daughters will go into captivity.
Thus I will execute judgments upon Egypt, and they will know that I am Jehovah.
And in the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt; and indeed it has not been bound to apply healing medicines, nor firmly bandaged to bind it to be strong enough to grasp a sword.
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and I will break both his arms, the strong arm and the one that was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries.
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put My sword in his hand, but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him with the groanings of one who is being slain.
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh will fall; and they will know that I am Jehovah, when I put My sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will stretch it out over the land of Egypt.
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries. Then they will know that I am Jehovah.