Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face toward Gog of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him,
And say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
And I will turn you around and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you and all your army forth, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great company with shield and buckler, all of them wielding swords;
Persia, Cush, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
Gomer and all its hordes, Beth-togarmah from the remotest parts of the north and all its hordes, many peoples with you.
Get ready; indeed get yourself ready, you and all your company who have gathered to you, and become their guard.
After many days you will be visited; in the last years you will come into the land which was brought back from the sword, and whose people were gathered from many peoples on the mountains of Israel, which have been a perpetual waste. Now they have been brought out from the peoples, and all of them dwell securely.
And you will go up, coming like a storm; you will be like a cloud covering the land, you and all your hordes and many peoples with you.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, On that day things will come up in your heart, and you will devise an evil device.
And you will say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages; I will come upon those at rest, dwelling securely, all of them dwelling without walls, without bars or doors;
To seize spoil and carry off plunder, to turn your hand against the once waste places, now inhabited, and against the people who are gathered out from the nations, who have acquired livestock and goods, who dwell at the middle of the earth.
Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish, with all their young lions, will say to you, Have you come to seize spoil? Have you assembled your company to carry off plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to seize great spoil?
Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Surely on that day when My people Israel are dwelling securely, you will recognize it;
And you will come from your place from the remotest parts of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding upon horses, a great company and a mighty army;
And you will come up against My people Israel, like a cloud to cover the land. In the last days I will bring you against My land so that the nations may know Me, when I am sanctified through you, O Gog, before their eyes.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Are you the one of whom I spoke in earlier times through My servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days for many years that I would bring you against them?
And on that day, when Gog comes against the land of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah, My wrath will come up in My nostrils.
For in My jealousy and in My fiery wrath I have spoken, Surely on that day there will be a great earthquake in the land of Israel;
The fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, the beasts of the field, all the creeping things that creep upon the earth, and every human being on the surface of the earth will quake at My presence, and mountains will be thrown down, and slopes will slide, and every wall will fall to the ground.
And I will call to all My mountains for a sword against him, declares the Lord Jehovah; every man's sword shall be against his brother.
And I will enter into judgment with him with pestilence and with blood; and I will rain torrential rain and great hailstones, fire and brimstone, upon him and his hordes and the many peoples who are with him.
And I will magnify Myself and sanctify Myself and make Myself known in the sight of many nations, and they will know that I am Jehovah.