And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Indeed I am against you, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
And I will turn you around and drive you on and bring you up from the remotest parts of the north, and I will bring you upon the mountains of Israel;
And I will strike your bow out of your left hand and make your arrows fall out of your right hand.
You will fall upon the mountains of Israel, you, all your hordes, and the peoples with you. I will give you up as food to every kind of scavenging bird and to the beasts of the field.
You will fall upon the open field, for I have spoken it, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And I will send fire on Magog and on those who dwell securely in the isles, and they will know that I am Jehovah.
And I will make known My holy name in the midst of My people Israel, and I will not allow My holy name to be profaned anymore. Then the nations will know that I am Jehovah, the Holy One in Israel.
Indeed it is coming and will take place, declares the Lord Jehovah. This is the day of which I have spoken.
And the inhabitants of the cities of Israel will go out and set fire to the weapons and burn them: bucklers and shields, bows and arrows, and javelins and spears; and they will fuel fires with them for seven years.
They will not carry in wood from the field nor fell any from the forests, for they will fuel fires with the weapons. And they will spoil their spoilers and plunder their plunderers, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And on that day I will give Gog a burial place in Israel, the valley of those who pass through, east of the sea; and it will stop those who pass through. And there they will bury Gog and all his multitude, and they will call it the valley of Hamon-gog.
And the house of Israel will spend seven months burying them in order to cleanse the land.
Indeed all the people of the land will bury them; and it will bring fame to them on the day that I am glorified, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And they will set apart men for continual employment, who will pass through the land; and with those who pass through will come those who bury those who remain upon the surface of the land, to cleanse it. They will search up to the end of seven months.
And those who pass through the land will pass through; and when anyone sees a human bone, he will erect a marker by it, until those responsible for burials have buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog.
And Hamonah will also be the name of a city. So they will cleanse the land.
And you, son of man, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Speak to every kind of bird and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves and come; gather yourselves from all around to My sacrifice which I sacrifice for you, a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, so that you may eat flesh and drink blood.
You shall eat the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, as of rams, lambs and male goats, bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
And you shall eat fat until you are satisfied and drink blood until you are drunk, from My sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.
And you will be satisfied at My table with horses and chariots, with mighty men and with all the men of war, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And I will establish My glory among the nations, and all the nations will see My judgment which I have executed and My hand which I have laid upon them.
So the house of Israel will know that I am Jehovah their God from that day onward.
And the nations will know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity because they trespassed against Me, and I hid My face from them. So I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and all of them fell by the sword.
According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions I dealt with them, and I hid My face from them.
Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Now I will turn the captivity of Jacob and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for My holy name.
And they shall bear their disgrace and all their trespasses with which they have trespassed against Me, when they shall dwell securely in their land, and no one will make them afraid.
When I have brought them back from the peoples and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, I will be sanctified in them in the sight of many nations.
And they will know that I am Jehovah their God because I brought them into captivity among the nations and have gathered them to their own land; and I will never again leave any of them there.
And I will no longer hide My face from them, for I will have poured out My Spirit upon the house of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah.