In the twenty-fifth year of our captivity, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on that same day the hand of Jehovah was upon me, and He brought me there.
In the visions of God He brought me into the land of Israel and set me down upon a very high mountain, and on it to the south there was a structure like a city.
And He brought me there, and there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze, with a line of flax and a measuring reed in His hand, standing in the gate.
And the man said to me, Son of man, look with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your heart on all that I show you, because for this purpose you have been brought here, that it may be shown to you. Tell all that you see to the house of Israel.
Now there was a wall all around the outside of the house, and in the man's hand there was a measuring reed six cubits long, each cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth. So He measured the thickness of the structure, one reed; and the height, one reed.
Then He came to the gate which faces toward the east and went up its steps, and He measured the threshold of the gate, one reed deep; and each threshold was one reed deep.
And every guardroom was one reed long and one reed wide, and the space between the guardrooms was five cubits, and the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate toward the house was one reed.
He measured also the porch of the gate toward the house, one reed.
Then He measured the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and its posts, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was toward the house.
And there were three guardrooms on one side and three on the other side of the gate, which was facing east; and the three of them had the same measurement, and the posts had the same measurement on both sides.
And He measured the width of the entrance of the gate, ten cubits; and the total length of the gate was thirteen cubits.
And there was a border before the guardrooms, one cubit on this side, and a border, one cubit on that side; and the guardrooms were six cubits on this side and six cubits on that side.
And He measured the total gate width from the roof edge of one guardroom to the roof edge of the other, twenty-five cubits. The entrances of the guardrooms were opposite each other.
He also made a measurement of the posts, sixty cubits in all; and the gate surrounded a court which reached to the posts.
And the distance from the front of the gate at the entrance to the front of the inner porch of the gate was fifty cubits.
And the guardrooms and their posts had latticed windows within and all around the gate. The porches also had windows within and all around, and palm trees were on each post.
Then He brought me into the outer court, and there were chambers and a pavement made for the court all around; thirty chambers were upon the pavement.
And the pavement flanked the gates, its width equal to the length of the gates; that is, the lower pavement.
Then He measured the distance from the front of the lower gate to the front of the outside of the inner court gate, a hundred cubits, both on the east and on the north.
Then He measured the gate of the outer court which faced toward the north, its length and its width.
And it had three guardrooms on this side and three on that side. And its posts and its porch were of the same measurement as the first gate; its length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
And its windows and its porch and its palm trees were of the same measurement as the gate which faced toward the east, and seven steps led up to it, and its porch was in front of them.
And there was a gate to the inner court opposite the outer gate, both on the north and on the east. And He measured the distance from gate to gate, a hundred cubits.
And He led me toward the south, and there was a gate toward the south, and He measured its posts and its porch according to those same measurements.
And the gate and its porch had windows all around just like those other windows; the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
And there were seven steps going up to it, and its porch was in front of them; and it had palm trees upon its posts, one on each side.
And there was a gate to the inner court toward the south, and He measured the distance from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits.
Then He brought me into the inner court through the south gate, and He measured the south gate according to those same measurements,
And its guardrooms and its posts and its porches according to those same measurements; and it had windows in and around it and its porches; the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
And there were porches all around, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits wide.
And its porches were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon its posts, and its steps had eight steps.
And He brought me into the inner court toward the east, and He measured the gate according to those same measurements,
And its guardrooms and its posts and its porches according to those same measurements; and it had windows in and around it and its porches; the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
And its porches were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon its posts on each side, and its steps had eight steps.
And He brought me to the north gate, and He measured it according to those same measurements,
Its guardrooms, its posts, and its porches; and it had windows in and around it; the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits.
And its porches were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon its posts, on each side, and its steps had eight steps.
And a chamber with its entrance was by the posts at the gates; there they washed the burnt offering.
And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side and two tables on that side on which to slay the burnt offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering.
And on one side outside, as one goes up to the entrance of the gate toward the north, were two tables; and on the other side, which belonged to the porch of the gate, were two tables.
Four tables were on this side and four tables on that side beside the gate; eight tables on which they slaughtered the sacrifices.
And there were four tables for the burnt offering, made of hewn stone, a cubit and a half long and a cubit and a half wide and one cubit high, on which they laid the instruments with which they slaughtered the burnt offering and the sacrifice;
And double hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened on the inside all around. And upon the tables was the flesh of the offering.
And outside the inner gate in the inner court were two chambers, one at the side of the north gate facing toward the south; one at the side of the south gate facing toward the north.
And He said to me, This chamber that faces toward the south is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house;
And the chamber that faces toward the north is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who come near to Jehovah to minister to Him from among the sons of Levi.
And He measured the court, a square, one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide; and the altar was in front of the house.
Then He brought me to the porch of the house and measured each post of the porch, five cubits on this side and five cubits on that side; and the width of the gate was fourteen cubits, plus the side indents in the gate, three cubits on this side and three cubits on that side.
The length of the porch was twenty cubits and the width twelve cubits, and ten steps led up to it; and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side and another on that side.