Moreover when you divide the land for inheritance by lot, you shall offer a heave offering of land to Jehovah, a holy portion of the land; its length shall be twenty-five thousand reeds long, and its width twenty thousand reeds; it shall be holy within all its surrounding border.
From this there will be reserved for the holy place a five hundred reed by five hundred reed square all around, and fifty cubits for its surrounding suburbs.
You shall also measure from this measurement a length of twenty-five thousand reeds and a width of ten thousand reeds, and in it will be the sanctuary, the most holy place.
It is a holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to Jehovah, and it shall be a place for their houses as well as a holy area for the sanctuary.
And an area twenty-five thousand reeds in length and ten thousand reeds in width shall be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, for their own possession, for cities to live in.
And alongside the holy heave offering you shall grant a possession for the city, five thousand reeds in width and twenty-five thousand reeds in length; it shall be for the whole house of Israel.
And you shall set aside a portion for the prince on both sides of the holy heave offering and of the city's possession, adjacent to the holy heave offering and adjacent to the city's possession, on the west side toward the west and on the east side toward the east. Thus the total length corresponds to one of the tribal portions from the western border to the eastern border.
In the land it shall be his possession in Israel. And My princes shall no longer oppress My people, but they shall give the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Enough, O princes of Israel! Put away violence and destruction, and execute justice and righteousness. Cease from your evicting of My people, declares the Lord Jehovah.
You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, so that the bath may contain a tenth of a homer, and the ephah a tenth of a homer. Its measure shall be according to the homer.
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, and fifteen shekels shall make up your mina.
This is the heave offering which you shall offer: a sixth of an ephah from a homer of wheat, and a sixth of an ephah from a homer of barley;
And a set portion of oil (that is, the bath of oil), a tenth of a bath from the cor, which is ten baths, that is, a homer (for ten baths are a homer);
And one lamb out of two hundred from the flock from the well-watered pastures of Israel--for a meal offering, for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings to make expiation for them, declares the Lord Jehovah.
All the people of the land shall be bound to give this heave offering to the prince in Israel.
But it will be the prince's portion to provide the burnt offerings, the meal offerings, and the drink offerings in the feasts, on the new moons, and on the Sabbaths, in all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He shall prepare the sin offering, the meal offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings to make expiation for the house of Israel.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a bull of the herd without blemish, and you shall purify the sanctuary.
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering and put it upon the doorposts of the house, and upon the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and upon the doorposts of the gate of the inner court.
And so you shall do on the seventh day of the month for everyone who sins unintentionally and for the simple. So you shall make expiation for the house.
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.
And on that day the prince shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a sin offering.
And during the seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to Jehovah, seven bulls and seven rams without blemish, daily for seven days; and a male goat daily for a sin offering.
And he shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah for a bull, an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, at the feast, he shall make the same provision seven days for the sin offering, for the burnt offering, for the meal offering, and for the oil.