Thus says the Lord Jehovah, The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut the six working days; but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
And the prince shall enter through the porch of the gate from the outside and stand by the doorpost of the gate, and the priests will prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate; then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until the evening.
And the people of the land shall worship at the entrance of that gate before Jehovah on the Sabbaths and on the new moons.
And the burnt offering that the prince shall present to Jehovah on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish;
And the meal offering shall be an ephah for the ram, and the meal offering for the lambs as he is able to give, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
And on the day of the new moon he shall offer a bull of the herd without blemish, six lambs, and a ram; they shall be without blemish.
And he shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah for the bull and an ephah for the ram, and for the lambs as he can afford, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
And when the prince enters, he shall come in through the porch of the gate, and he shall go out the same way.
But when the people of the land come before Jehovah at the appointed feasts, whoever enters through the north gate to worship shall go out through the south gate, and whoever enters through the south gate shall go out through the north gate; he shall not return through the gate by which he came in, but shall go out straight ahead.
And the prince shall come in among them when they enter, and when they go out, they shall go out together.
And at the feasts and at the appointed feasts the meal offering shall be an ephah for a bull and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs as he is able to give, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
And when the prince prepares a freewill offering, a burnt offering or peace offerings as a freewill offering to Jehovah, someone will open for him the gate that faces east; and he shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and someone shall shut the gate after he has gone out.
And you shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to Jehovah daily, every morning you shall provide it.
And you shall provide with it a meal offering every morning, a sixth of an ephah and a third of a hin of oil to moisten the fine flour. It is a meal offering to Jehovah continually, a perpetual statute.
Thus they shall provide the lamb and the meal offering and the oil every morning for a continual burnt offering.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, If the prince gives a gift to any of his sons, it is his inheritance. It shall belong to his sons; it is their possession by inheritance.
But if he gives some of his inheritance as a gift to one of his servants, it shall be his until the year of liberty; then it shall return to the prince. His inheritance shall remain only for his sons.
Moreover the prince shall not take any of the people's inheritance, casting them out of their own possession. He shall give an inheritance to his sons from his own possession so that none of My people are scattered away from their possession.
Then He brought me through the entry, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers for the priests, which face north. And there was a place there, at the rear toward the west.
And He said to me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the meal offering, so that they do not bring them out into the outer court, thereby sanctifying the people.
Then He brought me out into the outer court and led me past the four corners of the court; and there in each corner of the court was a court.
In the four corners of the court there were enclosed courts, forty cubits long and thirty cubits wide. These four enclosed courts in the corners were of one measurement.
And there was a wall all around them, around all four, and boiling places were made at the base of the walls all around.
Then He said to me, These are the boiling houses, where those who minister in the house shall boil the sacrifices of the people.