And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Now you, son of man, thus says the Lord Jehovah to the land of Israel, An end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land.
Now the end is upon you. And I will send My anger against you and will judge you according to your ways, and I will bring upon you all your abominations.
And My eye will not pity you, nor will I spare; but I will bring your ways upon you, and your abominations will be in your midst; and you will know that I am Jehovah.
Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Ill, a unique ill! It has now come.
An end is coming; the end is coming! It has awakened against you; it has now come.
Doom has come to you, you who inhabit the land; the time has come; the day is near--tumult and not the joyful shout on the mountains.
Now I will shortly pour out My wrath on you and spend My anger against you; and I will judge you according to your ways and bring all your abominations upon you.
My eye will not pity, nor will I spare. I will render to you according to your ways, and your abominations will be in your midst; and you will know that it is I, Jehovah, who strikes.
Indeed the day--it has now come. Doom has gone forth. The rod has blossomed; pride has budded;
Violence has risen up as a rod of wickedness. Nothing of them remains: nothing of their multitude, nothing of their wealth, and no eminence among them.
The time has come; the day has drawn near. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is against all their multitude.
For the seller will not return to what he has sold, while they live among the living; for the vision, which regards all the land's multitude, will not be turned; not one of them will assure his life by his iniquity.
They have blown the trumpet and have made everything ready, but no one goes to the battle; for My wrath is against all the land's multitude.
The sword is outside, and pestilence and famine are inside: He who is in the field will die by the sword, and he who is in the city will be devoured by famine and pestilence.
And those of them who escape will escape, and they will be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, each for his iniquity.
All hands will drop, and all knees will melt into water.
And they will gird themselves with sackcloth, and shuddering will cover them; and on all their faces there will be shame, and baldness on all their heads.
Their silver will they cast into the streets, and their gold will be an impurity; their silver and their gold will not be able to deliver them on the day of Jehovah's overflowing wrath. They cannot satisfy their souls nor fill their inward parts, for their iniquity has become a stumbling block to them.
And they turned the beauty of His ornaments into pride; and they made the images of their abominations, of their detestable things, with it; therefore I make it an impurity to them.
And I will give it into the hands of strangers as plunder and to the wicked of the earth as spoil, and they will profane it.
I will also turn My face from them, and they will profane My secret place; indeed the robbers will enter it and profane it.
Make a chain, for the land is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of violence.
Therefore I will bring the worst of the nations, and they will possess their houses; and I will put an end to the pride of the strong, and their holy places will be profaned.
Anguish comes; and they seek peace, but there is none.
Disaster upon disaster will come, and there will be rumor upon rumor. Then they will seek a vision from a prophet, but instruction will perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders.
The king will mourn, and the prince will be clothed with horror, and the hands of the people of the land will tremble. According to their ways I will deal with them, and by their judgments I will judge them; and they will know that I am Jehovah.